Technology News - Computers, Internet, Invention and Innovation Tech from CNN.com 


















EDITION:  INTERNATIONAL
U.S.
MÉXICO
ARABIC

Set edition preference



Sign up
Log in

















Home
Video
World
U.S.
Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
Business
World Sport
Entertainment
Tech
Travel
iReport















 




 Web Foundation tries to 'measure' the Internet True confessions of a daily deal addict  Stop tweeting and start cheering, linebacker says  Blackwater founder unveils video game  



























@CNNMoneyTech AT&T issued a glowing report on wireless industry's health -- with the exception of the carrier it's trying to buy. http://t.co/S3YaFiJ
8 minutes ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech Arrington threw a few jabs at AOL as he confirmed his departure from the influential blog he sold off a year ago. http://t.co/aRnQG1F
2 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech Want to discover the latest startups? Come see their pitches to @CNNMoney on 9/22. RSVP now: http://t.co/eRljExc #StartUpCNNMoney
2 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech Here's the full rundown & signup links on #StartUpCNNMoney: http://t.co/OJxtP1Z Come join us 9/22, 6-8pm 16 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech Our #StartUpCNNMoney event is open to all -- come watch the demos & meet @CNNMoneyTech team! 9/22, 6-8pm. http://t.co/JJWCdbc
16 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech Hey entrepreneurs: What's your pitch for @CNNMoney? Submit for 9/22 demo event: http://t.co/JJWCdbc #StartUpCNNMoney
16 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech TechCrunch founder leaves AOL in a cloud of acrimony http://t.co/v4CvChz
18 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech AT&T flings half-truths in its T-Mobile deal defense http://t.co/oX5vAsp
19 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET








@cnntech RT @jdsutter: The @webfoundation is launching an interesting project to measure the size/scope of the Internet: http://t.co/q40H8VF
19 hours ago via Twitter for Mac | RETWEET








@CNNMoneyTech Just announced at TC Disrupt: Arrington is officially out of TechCrunch & AOL. http://t.co/nlVZkw4
19 hours ago via TweetDeck | RETWEET







Read more tweets attwitter.com/CNNTECH


































FILTER:






ALL








SOCIAL MEDIA








MOBILE








WEB








GAMING & GADGETS








INNOVATION








TECH BIZ













Thermal imaging turns heat up on liars






Anyone with a burning conscience might want to look away now. FULL STORY





By Matthew Knight for CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Facebook co-founder says team had 'right kind of ethics'






The founding principles of business ethics at Facebook, according to co-founder Dustin Moskovitz, are as straightforward as the site's privacy settings system. FULL STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Dolphin releases gesture-based browser for the iPad






MoboTap, the creator of the popular Dolphin Browser for Android and iPhone, has unleashed a browser for the iPad. FULL STORY








By Ben Parr Filed under: Innovation

















AT&T flings half-truths in its T-Mobile deal defense CNNMoney.com



In a response to the government's antitrust suit against its proposed merger with T-Mobile, AT&T issued a glowing report on the wireless industry's health -- with the sole exception of the carrier it is trying to buy. FULL STORY





By David Goldman Filed under: Tech Biz

















PostSecret's social network of secrets CNNMoney.com



As part of an art project, Frank Warren posted his home address online and asked people to anonymously mail him their secrets on handmade postcards. His idea: post those secrets online, giving people an outlet to say to the world what's on their min… FULL STORY





By Laurie Segall Filed under: Tech Biz

















Report: Amazon considering Netflix-like book service






Amazon is considering a Netflix-like service that would let people pay an annual fee to get book "rentals," according to a published report. FULL STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















IBM's 'Jeopardy' computer lands health care job CNNMoney.com



IBM's Watson computer thrilled "Jeopardy" audiences in February by vanquishing two human champs in a three-day match. It's an impressive resume, and now Watson has landed a plum job. FULL STORY





By Julianne Pepitone Filed under: Tech Biz

















Cars don't waste fuel. Drivers waste fuel






Researchers at the University of California, Riverside's Center for Environmental Research and Technology (CERT) are developing a new way of boosting fuel efficiency by as much as 30% without changing a car's powertrain at all. FULL STORY








By Keith Barry, WIRED Filed under: Innovation

















Hacked NBC Twitter feed falsely reports NYC attack






Hackers accessed the Twitter account for NBC News on Friday and posted false messages about a fresh attack on New York's ground zero. FULL STORY





By the CNN Wire Staff Filed under: Web

















FBI raids bankrupt solar venture Solyndra CNNMoney.com



FBI agents, acting with inspectors from the Department of Energy, raided the offices of solar panel maker Solyndra on Thursday, just days after the DOE-backed company filed for bankruptcy. FULL STORY





By Steve Hargreaves Filed under: Tech Biz

















Sweeping patent changes poised to become law CNNMoney.com



Congress on Thursday passed legislation that will reform the U.S. patent system for the first time since the Truman administration. FULL STORY





By David Goldman Filed under: Tech Biz

















Tech  Check: Bartz flames Yahoo board, hacking Snooki






In this week's Tech Check podcast, Doug Gross, John Sutter and Stephanie Goldberg discussCEO Carol Bartz's frank, and foul-mouthed, response to her firing from Yahoo. FULL STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















Grab a virtual margarita on Facebook with Jimmy Buffett






In this economy, it might be easier to grab a virtual margarita than a real one. FULL STORY





By John Gaudiosi, Special to CNN Filed under: Gaming & Gadgets

















Amazon: No California sales tax collection til 2012 CNNMoney.com



Amazon has struck a deal with lawmakers that will give the company one more year before it must start collecting sales tax on purchases made in California. FULL STORY





By Julianne Pepitone Filed under: Tech Biz

















E-mail typos result in 20GB of stolen data






Two researchers who set up doppelganger domains to mimic legitimate domains belonging to Fortune 500 companies say they managed to vacuum up 20 gigabytes of misaddressed e-mail over six months. FULL STORY








By Kim Zetter, WIRED Filed under: Web

















Google+ vs. Facebook: The war for online social games






Google's social network, Google+, recently sent tremors through the gaming world with the announcement that it would be launching a new social games service. FULL STORY





By Scott Steinberg, Special to CNN Filed under: Gaming & Gadgets

















Will patent reform really create 200,000 jobs? CNNMoney.com



America's first significant patent reform in six decades is close to becoming law: It passed Congress on Thursday and President Obama has declared that he will sign the bill. FULL STORY





By David Goldman Filed under: Tech Biz

















MacBook Air 'doubles as a kitchen knife'






When all your kitchen knives are in the dishwasher and you really -- just really -- need to chop up some carrots, what tool do you turn to for backup? FULL STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Gaming & Gadgets

















Facebook faces privacy concerns in Germany over 'Like' button



Companies in at least one German state could face steep fines for placing Facebook's "Like" button on their websites, and officials across the country are scheduled to discuss similar measures later this month. FULL STORY





By Rick Noack, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Google buys Zagat in push for local market CNNMoney.com



Google is throwing significant muscle into its new focus on local businesses: It has acquired reviews behemoth Zagat for an undisclosed sum, the company said Thursday. FULL STORY





By Julianne Pepitone Filed under: Tech Biz

















Plate of sushi may be an iPhone 5 spoiler






This time, it only took a plate of tasty-looking raw fish to crank up the iPhone rumor machine. FULL STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















New SolarCity deal will double U.S. rooftop solar power CNNMoney.com



Residential solar power provider SolarCity and the U.S. government announced a deal Wednesday to put solar panels on military housing units, a move that could double the number of rooftop solar power installed in the United States. FULL STORY





By Steve Hargreaves Filed under: Tech Biz

















Hacked TV remote will auto-mute Snooki






When Matt Richardson works from his home in Brooklyn, New York, he likes to keeps the TV on to stay informed, but some celebrity or another is always taking up airtime and bugging him. FULL STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Spotify gets Pandora-style Web interface






Millions of prayers have just been answered. Spotify has been granted a Pandora-esque web radio interface called Echofi. But not by the company itself -- it's been built by coder Andy Smith, who's also the brains behind Spotibot. FULL STORY








By Duncan Geere, WIRED Filed under: Web

















Yahoo's only hope is to sell itself CNNMoney.com



Here's some unsolicited advice for interim Yahoo CEO Tim Morse, and whoever is -- lucky? unlucky? -- enough to replace him permanently. FULL STORY





By Paul R. La Monica Filed under: Tech Biz

















Archive chronicles TV's take on 9/11






It's a time few may want to remember. But TV news reports of the September 11, 2001, attacks -- the innocuous moments before, and the horrible hours and days after -- are now archived online for anyone who cares to relive them. FULL STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















Ethical hackers battle to prevent 'information security apocalypse'






Barely a day passes without news of another major computer security breach. Last week a hacking network named "Hollywood Leaks" began their attack on the personal data of celebrities, officially adding the glitterati to a roll of shame that already includes targets as diffuse as Sony, the Church of Scientology and PayP… FULL STORY





From Howard Swains, for CNN Filed under: Web

















Police investigating Apple house search






Police here have opened an investigation into the search of a man's home by Apple employees, an official said Wednesday. FULL STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Ex-Yahoo CEO will walk away with millions CNNMoney.com



When Carol Bartz says she wishes Yahoo "only the best going forward," she means it -- her severance package leaves her with millions of dollars tied to the company's stock performance over the coming year. FULL STORY





By Julianne Pepitone Filed under: Tech Biz

















Amazon's new drop-off spot: 7-Eleven?






Who's up for "Moby Dick" and a Slurpee? FULL STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















Only about half of smartphone owners use phone's GPS for directions






Virtually all smartphones now include a built-in GPS receiver to enable location tracking, but only 55% of U.S. smartphone owners have used their phone's GPS to help get local directions or recommendations. FULL STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Without AT&T, T-Mobile is a wireless white elephant CNNMoney.com



The government's antitrust lawsuit is bad news for AT&T, but it's potentially disastrous for T-Mobile. FULL STORY





By David Goldman Filed under: Tech Biz

















How 9/11 inspired a new era of robotics






When Robin Murphy saw the World Trade Center towers fall on September 11, she knew of an unexpected group that could help respond: robots. FULL STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Netflix now enforcing streaming limit






Netflix has started to restrict its users from streaming more than one movie at a time as part of its price hike. FULL STORY








By Ben Parr, Mashable
Filed under: Web

















Yahoo's Carol Bartz out as CEO CNNMoney.com



The ax has swung. Carol Bartz is out as Yahoo CEO, ending a fraught tenure that culminated in months of speculation about when she would be ousted. FULL STORY





By Julianne Pepitone Filed under: Tech Biz

















How your online dating photo should look






Obvious observation number one: Judging by the high response rate of our last two columns on online dating, it sure seems like a lot of you out there are looking for love. FULL STORY





By Andrea Bartz and Brenna Ehrlich, Special to CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Explore 9/11 through the eyes of your iPhone CNNMoney.com



Ten years ago, on 9/11 -- one of the most devastating days in United States history -- the world had never seen an iPhone, sent a tweet, or updated a status on Facebook. FULL STORY





By Laurie Segall Filed under: Tech Biz

















The way carriers manage networks can hurt phone performance






Does your smartphone seem slow, or is its battery draining fast? Part of this may be due to how your wireless carrier manages its network, according to a recent study by researchers from the University of Michigan and Microsoft Research. FULL STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Is blog TechCrunch unraveling in public?






What's a blogger to do when his blog is in turmoil? FULL STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Web

















How the hottest startups got their names






There are no rules to naming a startup. And most entrepreneurs do assume that the name they choose will change before their businesses really start to gain momentum. FULL STORY








By Sarah Kessler, Mashable
Filed under: Innovation

















Energy innovation: From a garage to the Pentagon CNNMoney.com



Spurred by a desire to save money and lives by reducing the number of vulnerable fuel convoys they depend on, the Marines last month invited 13 companies to their desert base to pitch them the latest in battlefield solar and fuel efficiency technolog… FULL STORY





By Steve Hargreaves Filed under: Tech Biz

















Your virtual cow could be worth $0 CNNMoney.com



Dedicated social gamers devote many hours to tending their online farms and digital pets -- and lots of money, too. This year they'll spend an estimated $650 million in real cash on virtual goods. FULL STORY





By Julianne Pepitone Filed under: Tech Biz

















Five tech tools for new parents






When my wife woke me up before dawn about three months ago to tell me she was having contractions, one of the first things I did was grab my iPhone from the nightstand. FULL STORY





By Etan Horowitz, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Google will rock you: 'Doodle' celebrates Queen's late frontman






Google users around the world were rocking out to Queen on Monday -- except for in the U.S., where search engines will remain quiet until Tuesday. FULL STORY







By Brandon Griggs, CNN Filed under: Web

















PC monitor delivers pop-up health tips






If your office colleagues keep commenting on your dead-eyed stare and your neck feels like it's set in concrete then the chances are you might be spending too much time in front of your computer screen. FULL STORY





By Matthew Knight for CNN Filed under: Innovation










 


 EXPLORE MORE TOP TECH STORIES ON NEWSPULSE

 

















  Digital Biz: Watch this spaceEye-control is going to give technology a new look. FULL STORY 





 Earth's Frontiers: Nuclear riskIs nuclear energy worth the risk? Have your say in the CNN debate. FULL STORY 





 CNN Labs: Thought powerU.S. researchers are developing a robotic arm controlled by mind power.  FULL STORY 





 
		MONDAY
	
The Wild Web
 Internet Archive chronicles 9/11 coverageIt's a time few may want to remember. But TV news reports of the September 11, 2001, attacks -- the innocuous moments before, and the horrible hours and days after -- are now archived online for anyone who cares to relive them. FULL STORY 
		The Wild Web comes out every Monday
	
 
		TUESDAY
	
Gadgets & Gaming
 Four new games for armchair generalsFor gamers, the urge to conquer and pillage dates back to time immemorial. Tabletop amusements like chess and its numerous variants have enthralled players for centuries. FULL STORY 
		Gadgets & Gaming comes out every Tuesday
	
 
		WEDNESDAY
	
Mobile Watch
 Only half of smartphone owners use phone GPS for directionsVirtually all smartphones now include a built-in GPS receiver to enable location tracking, but only 55% of U.S. smartphone owners have used their phone's GPS to help get local directions. FULL STORY 
		Mobile Watch comes out every Wednesday
	
 
		THURSDAY
	
Social Circles
 Google+: 10 things it does better Google+, Google's new social networking service, might cautiously be called a hit. With 25 million visitors at last count, Google+ may well be the fastest-growing social network to launch thus far. Here's why. FULL STORY 
		Social Circles comes out every Thursday
	
 
		FRIDAY
	
CNN Tech Lab
 Hacked TV remote will auto-mute SnookiWhen Matt Richardson works from his home in Brooklyn, New York, he likes to keeps the TV on to stay informed, but some celebrity or another is always taking up airtime and bugging him. FULL STORY 
		CNN Tech Lab comes out every Friday
	
 








 How your online dating photo should look Obvious observation number one: Judging by the high response rate of our last two columns on online dating, it sure seems like a lot of you out there are looking for love.  FULL STORYBy Andrea Bartz and Brenna Ehrlich, Special to CNN 








































 CNET | SEPTEMBER 12, 2011IBM's Watson to offer medical advice to doctorsIBM has inked a deal with health insurer WellPoint that will let the latter use the technology behind "Jeopardy"-playing computer Watson to suggest patient diagnoses and treatments. FULL STORY 

























































News Stream
Mon-Fri 2000 HK
		Using technology to present the news in different & engaging ways
	












CNN TV Schedule | HLN | Listen to CNN




TV Programs
----------------------------------------
Today's schedule
----- NEWS -----
American Morning
Anderson Cooper 360
CNN Newsroom
CNN Presents
Prime News
Morning Express with Robin Meade
Spec. Investigations Unit
CNN Student News
Showbiz Tonight
The Situation Room
State of the Union
----- INTERVIEW and DEBATE -----
Fareed Zakaria GPS
ISSUES with Jane Velez-Mitchell
Nancy Grace
In the Arena
Piers Morgan Tonight
Reliable Sources
The Joy Behar Show
----- NEWS for LIVING -----
Clark Howard
Sanjay Gupta MD
Your Bottom Line
Your Money














 




















 
Feature: The quest for the golden Nintendo …			  
Apple: Google acquisition means Motorola lo…			  
Review: ViewSonic makes 3D easy with new co…			  
Separating a single photon from the flock			  

MORE.....






















 
Could Facebook's Music Service Include Conc…			  
The Real Reason Dave Morin Turned Down A $1…			  
Dustin Moskovitz: Why I Left Facebook To St…			  
Facebook Cofounder: Google+ Is The Best Com…			  

MORE






















 
TechShop's Mark Hatch Is Building A P…			  
With Payvment's Fashionable Facebook …			  
Fore! Water-Sucking, Pesticide-Covere…			  
Libyan Rebels' DIY Arsenal			  

MORE






















 
Microsoft Prepares Windows 8 for Battle Aga…			  
Dolphin Launches Gesture-Based Browser for …			  
Groupon Sales Team Files Class-Action Suit …			  
AOL Eyes Merger With Yahoo [REPORT]			  

MORE
























Sept. 13, 1899: New Yorker Becomes First U.…			 

Fusion Garage Tablet Jumps on the Price-Sla…			  
Report: GameStop Developing Android Tablet			  
Snazzy iPhone Mod Illuminates Apple Logo			 


MORE






















 
Samsung files French patent complaint again…			  
Visualized: NASA's Hasselblad photography m…			  
Intel shows disaster management tech at IDF…			  
Volvo unveils Concept You luxury sedan, dri…			  

MORE

































 





Loading weather data ...














Home | Video | World | U.S. | Africa | Asia | Europe | Latin America | Middle East | Business | World Sport | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | iReport
Tools & Widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Radio | CNN Shop | Site map | CNN Partner Hotels



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN México |  |  |  | 


© 2011 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | License our content | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts


















 