2007  May | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


"It Sounded Like A Train"
2 comments






Check out this dramatic footage from the Pine Barrens Fire in New Jersey May 16.Notice the wind in at the tree tops.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ULNIVaQM6As]
Thanks to Jason at Hamptons Fire for the heads up.





Posted by Mike
on 05/21/2007 •
		Filed under: Fire Video, wildland fire



Blog of Future Firefighter Paul Whalen
Comments Off






Thanks for the mention Paul, I’m honored.Best of luck to you.Be safe.




Posted by Mike
on 05/19/2007 •
		Filed under: firefighters



Oops!
Comments Off






An F-16 training over the Warren Grove Gunnery Range near Atlantic City inadvertently ignited what is know now as the Pinelands Fire. No one feels worse than the pilot. Let’s hope nobody gets hurt before the flames are doused.I have to say watching the TV coverage I’m taken back by the ferocity of this blaze. Crowning in May on flat terrain in New Jersey has me scratching my head.  Combined with the fire activity in Georgia and Florida this month I have to believe the California and Western states region are in for it this season.




Posted by Mike
on 05/16/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



"Copter Chick" Desiree Horton
5 comments






Helicopter pilot Desiree Horton added Firefighter Blog to her blogroll.  I’ve been a fan of hers for years watching her traffic reports from KTLA and KABC in Los Angeles.  Desiree fights fire by helicopter for the USFS and CDF in addition to other flying jobs that include news flying!  Her Copter Chick blog is an online account of her flying life and other activities of interest to her many fans.She lists her interests as surfing, snowboarding, dirt bikes and motorcycles, (she has a cool Harley) traveling and friends.
She probably wouldn’t mind if you took a look at the DVD of her movie One Six Right.
Yes guys proof that the perfect woman does exist.




Posted by Mike
on 05/15/2007 •
		Filed under: Firefighter Blogs



Bugaboo Scrub, A Self Winding Dynamo
Comments Off






“The word “dynamo” means “Power in Motion,” from Greek: δύναμις; dynamis, -power, and Latin: motio, -motion.”
Wikipedia;Magneto hydrodynamicsDrift of spiral waves
It burns in 35% humidity and “eats” water;
“Gorski said Florida is the driest he has seen since 2000. The fire chief said  he has never seen a wildfire so resistant to water.  Nothing happened initially when firefighters started pumping more than 100 gallons of water a minute on the wildfire.“It wasn’t even like affecting it,” Gorski said. “It was like drinking it.”"
Inciweb summary of the two headed Bugaboo Scrub Fire now being fought on fronts in Florida and Georgia.
Summary
This large fire started in the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge in southern Georgia.  It eventually spread into northern Florida.  The Georgia portion is called the Bugaboo Scrub Fire.  The Florida portion is called the Florida Bugaboo Wildfire.  This site will provide updates for both portions of the fire. 
 
Mandatory Evacuation - Deep Creek, Florida & areas east of US 441
Residents in the Deep Creek area, east of 441 and north of I-10 remain evacuated.  Much of the Columbia County area along the east side of 441 that is west and southwest of the head of the fire, remain evacuated.  Residents who need more information can call the Columbia County Information Line at 386-719-7530.
Mandatory Evacuation – Reeves Landing, Georgia
A mandatory evacuation has been issued for Reeves Landing, 3 miles NE of Fargo.
Evacuation lifted – Taylor, Florida
The residents of the town of Taylor have been allowed to return to their home but have been asked to remain on alert.
Precautionary Evacuation – Moniac, Georgia
A precautionary evacuation remains in effect.  
Fire Update
Bugaboo Scrub Fire (Georgia)
Fire crews working for Georgia Forestry Commission, along with private timber companies, are working along the flanks of the fire where conditions allow and are working to protect structures in the area.  Fire crews and forest industry personnel are also strengthening lines on the southwest edge of the Okefenokee Swamp near Fargo. Crews have been successful in holding the fire inside the refuge with the exception of three small areas that have been contained. A community protection plan has been implemented and crews are continuing structure protection in Fargo.  The break in the weather has aided crews in preparations in that community.
Florida Bugaboo Wildfire (Florida)
This is the south portion of the Bugaboo Scrub Fire that began in Georgia. The portion of the fire in Florida is reported at over 101,000 acres.  Crews report good progress made Friday due to lighter winds.  Despite the best efforts of firefighters however, 9 outbuildings were destroyed and one damaged in a hunting camp near Deep Creek. The same lighter winds are expected to keep fire behavior down today, giving firefighters a chance to complete more containment line. Burnout operations were conducted late into the night Friday and went well. This morning, crews are having difficulty working on the line due to a heavy inversion that’s holding thick smoke and fog near the ground.
The Southern Blue Incident Management Team will hold a press conference today (Saturday) at the Day’s Inn at the intersection of I-10 and US 441 at 4:00 pm.
Acreage Update
Totals for Bugaboo:  212,042 acres
Bugaboo Scrub Fire (Georgia):  111,042 acres
Florida Bugaboo Wildlife:  101,000+ acres
Weather
Mostly clear and breezy with a 20% chance of showers in the afternoon.  High temperature of 90, minimum humidity of 35%.  Winds: E to NE at 5-10 mph with gusts to 15 mph.
Road Closures
Georgia
··                 Hwy 441 is closed from Homerville to Florida line (previously Fargo to Florida line)
··                 SR 177 south of Hwy 1 (entrance to Okefenokee Swamp Park) is now open
··                 SR 177 between Stephen C. Foster State Park and Fargo is closed
··                 SR 94 is closed from St. George to Moniac and from the Florida line through Fargo to Statenville
··                 SR 185 in Georgia is closed
··                 SR 89 in Georgia from Fargo to Homerville is closed
Florida
··                 US 441 from County Road 100 A in Lake City to the FL/GA line in Columbia County, FL is closed
··                 State Road 2 from CR 127 in Baker County to the FL/GA line in Columbia County, FL. Is closed
··                 I-10 exit ramps to US 441 are closed.
··                 I-10, from US 90 (Sanderson, FL) to US 129 (Live Oak, FL), is closed due to smoke and fog.      The fire is still north of I-10 and east of US 441.  
··                 US 129 entrance ramp to I-10 in Live Oak is closed
··                 I-75 is now closed form Valdosta, Georgia to I-10 at Lake City, Florida (previously from Florida line to Lake City)
Basic Information



Incident Type
Wildland Fire 


Cause
Lightning 


Date of Origin
05/05/2007 at 1700 hrs. 


Location
Ware County, Georgia/Baker County, Florida 


Incident Commander
Ruggiero / Quesinberry / 



Current Situation



Total Personnel
339 


Size
233,718 acres 


Fuels Involved

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – The fire is burning in southern rough and wet scrub/shrub, and industrial pine plantations of various ages. The western area is made up of timber stands of various ages and composition, with dominate species being longleaf, loblolly, and slash pine. Swamp/bays are intermixed throughout and due to a low water table are readily available to burn. 
Florida Bugaboo – Mosaic of southern rough, 1 to 25 years old, and wet scrub/shrub, and commercial pine plantations.



Fire Behavior

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – Moderate to extreme fire behavi
or with widespread torching. Rate of spread 40 chain/hour with 5 to 25 foot flamelengths. The western area is observed to have high to extreme fire behavior with high rates of spread and single tree and group torching, as well as spotting. 
Florida Bugaboo – Extreme fire behavior with torching and spotting.



Significant Events

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – An evacuation ordered is still in effect for the Moccasin Creek community. A flight restriction remains in effect for the southern end of the Bugaboo Fire.
Florida Bugaboo – I-10 closed periodically due to smoke east of Lake City.




Outlook



Planned Actions

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – Continued line building along the swamp edge break and perimeter road. Plans for the western area include structure protection, fuel mitigation, and line construction.
Florida Bugaboo – Construct and hold lines in all divisions.  Structure protection.



Projected Movement

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – Projected incident movement/spread during the next period is west and southeast. Projections for the western area include potential for significant spread due to continued high temperatures, gusty winds and low humidities.



Growth Potential

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – High to extreme
Florida Bugaboo – Extreme



Terrain Difficulty

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – High
Florida Bugaboo – Medium



Containment Target

Containment and control efforts will be dependent on a significant rain event.



Remarks

Bugaboo Scrub (GA) – Of the total acreage 118,643 acres are in Georgia and 10,447 acres in Florida. All critical needs and costs to date are included in the Big Turnaround complex ICS-209 since the Big Turnaround resources are taking action on the Bugaboo Scrub fire. The Bugaboo Scrub fire is now moving off of federal wilderness and refuge areas managed by the Southern Area Red Team. The fire is now entering private and industry land in Georgia. Once this fire moved off of federal property, the Lone Star State IMT (Hannemann) assumed management of these areas on state and private property on behalf of the Georgia Forestry Commission. 
Florida Bugaboo – Fire is also in Columbia County.




Weather



Current Wind Conditions
5 mph NE 


Current Temperature
86 degrees 


Current Humidity
45 % 


Forecasted Wind Conditions
12 mph NE 


Forecasted Temperature
85 degrees 


Forecasted Humidity
40 % 







Posted by Mike
on 05/13/2007 •
		Filed under: wildfires



Video From The Griffith Park Brushfire
1 comment






Hamptons Fire embedded some of the better video’s from the Griffith Park Brush Fire earlier today. Considering how many people could see the fire from their own doorsteps it’s not surprising so many videos and images are available. 
Earlier today I added some random video from the incident on my Vod.Pod (below on sidebar).




Posted by Mike
on 05/11/2007 •
		Filed under: Fire Video, Griffith Park Fire



Added A Voting Widget
2 comments






I wish I had more time to blog on the massive Florida wildfires and hope to free up some time later but I wanted to point out a new feature I added to the sidebar.
Please check out the Presidential hopeful voting poll down the sidebar.
Update: 5/22I deleted the voting poll booth. Some ideas don’t have appeal. I had a feeling it would not.




Posted by Mike
on 05/10/2007 •
		Filed under: widgets



Griffith Park Fire A True Hollywood Event
2 comments






For those that don’t know Griffith Park is a 4,000 acre oasis in the middle of L.A. proper.  It is the home of the Griffith Park Observatory, the Greek Theatre, L.A. Zoo, a golf course equestrian center and kiddie play land.  Dozens of miles of hiking trails wind through the park and views from the higher points are the best in the Southland.The fire started at 1:30 pm and from my (TV) vantage point 200 miles away it looked like it was skunking for the most part and was nothing more than a curiosity. Later in the evening a major wind gust put the fire in context. It could have been bad. The TV people were excited and there was talk of the  Zoo animals being evacuated. Media hysteria was setting in.
Later in the afternoon L.A. Mayor Villaraigosa conducted a press conference from the incident base.  He had the L.A. Fire PIO, the police chief and other officials at his side. The mayor clearly knows nothing about fire and it showed as he fumbled with words and warned people to clear brush from their property. Then the strangest thing I ever heard from a fire base happened. A mayoral aid came to the mic and began speaking Spanish. I could not believe it.  Now I could understand if the residents of the affected Los Feliz neighborhood were primarily Spanish speaking but they are not.  Los Feliz is upscale and doesn’t share the same demographics as East L.A., they speak English!  Bizarre, truly bizarre and tells you everything you need to know about Los Angeles politics.
The fire burned roughly 800 acres (updated) and last count there were more than 600 firefighters on scene.  No structures lost. The firefighter to acre ratio could not be higher. With 6 local TV channels covering the incident it was fun to change channels to see which crews had the best views.  Later in the evening I caught Chuck Henry of NBC channel 4. Chuck Henry is a great fire correspondent who always manages to get right on the line.  Sometimes he gets to close as he did near lake Arrowhead in 2003 when his satellite truck burned.  Had a firefighter not scooped Chuck from the road he would have died.  Henry has earned his (fire) wings. Here is a link to a slideshow from NBC4 news from the Griffith Park Brushfire.
What made this a true “Hollywood” event was the grand stage. I’d estimate up to 5 million people were able to see flames by simpy walking outside of their house. If you can see the Hollywood sign or the back side of Hollywood Mountain you could see flame. If you lived in Burbank, Santa Monica, Downtown L.A or Long Beach all you had to do was look outside to see red. Quite a site for so many and doubtful there could be a more interesting venue for a fire.The helitack people knew it too. Ordinarilly air ops stop at dusk but these helicopter pilots played on into the night. They were true action hero stars putting on a fantastic show.
Capping the night was another press conference by Mayor Villaraigosa.  I actually felt sorry for him as he once again started in on the need to clear brush.  He really had no clue about the fire.  Everyone watching on any of the TV stations offering full coverage knew by now the threat to structures had passed. The mayor looked like an ill informed boob.  In this Hollywood production he was the comic relief or tragic figure, take your pick.
Kuddos to the L.A. County and L.A. City fire crews as well as CDF support. L.A. Fire Ops. and media operations. You all put on a helluva production.





Posted by Mike
on 05/09/2007 •
		Filed under: brush fires, Griffith Park Fire, wildfires



Robotic Firefighting Device
Comments Off






ZDNet points us to an article about a robotic firefighting device at Innovations-Report.com.
“Try to picture a snake-like robot that can move into places that are too dangerous for humans to enter. The snake can climb up stairs, force past beams and twist itself round corners. Imagine that it has a built-in advanced water tap that not only can be turned on and off, but can allow the direction of the water flow to be altered….
The snake has a wide variety of applications: fighting fires where humans can not enter due to heat or the risk of building collapse; underwater operations in connection with maintenance of oil installations on the sea floor; rescue operations in earthquake areas and potentially explosive situations.
“Tunnel fires are explosive and it is extremely dangerous for firefighters to enter the tunnel to extinguish the fire,” says Stavdahl. “In such situations, it is possible to imagine a whole nest of snakes slithering out from a layer in the tunnel. Since the snake has modules, it is possible to design snakes for different functions: snakes can, for example, provide oxygen masks to people trapped in the tunnel, light up the tunnel or carry a camera that provides firefighters outside an overview of the situation without requiring them to enter.”
Interesting research and who would buy it.  Maybe one device for a city the size of Cleveland or Bakersfield. Boston Fire Department maybe 2?  Oil rigs? Mining sites? I’d like to see it in action.




Posted by Mike
on 05/05/2007 •
		Filed under: firefighting technology



Georgia Still Burning, Did You Know?
1 comment






The fire disaster in Georgia remains under the radar of the national press but the story of life disrupted and dedicated firefighting continues. Children in the town of Waycross in Ware County Georgia have missed 8 days of school and everyone in the county face weeks of lingering smoke.  The Okefenokee area’s Satilla Regional Medical Center posts a fire information page for local residents.
Posted today;
 “In the recent days, we have all witnessed    incredible damage and awesome power. But the greatest power we    have seen has been the extraordinary resolve, courage and dedication of the    firefighters and rescue workers that are serving our community, fighting the wildfire. These brave men and women have    worked day and night, saving lives and homes.    On behalf of the employees, physicians, volunteers, and board of    directors at Satilla Regional Medical Center, we thank you. Once again, you have given    us someone to look up to. “   
Here here, some stories to be told and heard from those on the ground. When 100 acres burn in the Southern California we get beginning to end coverage. When 100,000 acres burn in rural Georgia affecting thousands and endangering the health of hundreds we get glancing coverage. YesterdayGovernor Sonny Perdue issued an Executive Order declaring a state of emergency in 21 counties in southeast Georgia.Did you know that?




Posted by Mike
on 05/03/2007 •
		Filed under: wildfires

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 1 day ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 2 days ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 2 days ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 1 week ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video
Willie Wines Jr. 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



State Fire News Roundup…

September 11th: One Victim Identified in Triple Fatal MVA
September 9th: Hundreds Attend 9/11… (more)




Zen Zone #30…

When you are challenged with a problem, it always helps to maintain perspective.… (more)




Report: Driver Error Blamed For Missouri…

Three firefighters in the truck were injured.… (more)




9/11 Commemoration … Firegeezer is…

The average citizen doesn't comprehend the cohesiveness that firefighters and police officers have… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















