AgriLife Today - powered by FeedBurner
&




AgriLife Today

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get AgriLife Today delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Expert: Don’t experience a second disaster – watch for fraud


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 22:11:55 +0000
More than 500 acres, five residences and a semi-tractor trailer loaded with grain were lost in this wildfire in the Smith County Jacksonville Heights district, east of Tyler on Labor Day. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Robert Burns)
COLLEGE STATION — A disaster can bring out the best in people or the worst in people, said a Texas AgriLife Extension Service expert. And if it’s the latter, people need to be aware of how some people may try to take advantage.
“The most common complaints following a disaster relate to price gouging and home repair contractors, but identity theft is also a concern,” said Dr. Joyce Cavanagh, AgriLife Extension family economics specialist in College Station.
Cavanagh said following past disasters, such as Hurricane Rita, the Texas Office of the Attorney General received numerous complaints of businesses charging excessive prices for essential goods and services such as rental cars, hotels and motels, building materials, and groceries.
“Anyone who feels he or she is a victim of price gouging following a disaster should report the incident to the consumer hotline at the Texas Office of the Attorney General,” she said. The number for the hotline is 800-252-8011, and their website is at http://www.oag.state.tx.us .
After a major disaster, contractors and others often go door-to-door soliciting home repair work, Cavanagh said.
“While many of them are legitimate, others are not and the dishonest ones may take your money
without completing the job or use inferior materials and perform shoddy work,” she said.
Cavanagh offered the following suggestions before hiring a contractor:
– Get more than one estimate and don’t be forced to sign a contract right away. Ask the salesperson to leave a copy of the contract for you to review.
– Get everything in writing, including cost, work to be done, time schedules, guarantees, payment schedule and other concerns.
– Keep copies of everything you sign.
She added that any contract signed for work on a homestead must contain the following warning next to the space for your signature: “Important Notice: You and your contractor are responsible for meeting the terms and conditions of this contract. If you sign this contract and you fail to meet the terms and conditions of this contract, you may lose your legal ownership rights in your home. Know your rights and duties under the law.”
“When you sign a contract for home improvements on your homestead, a contractor can legally fix a lien on the homestead,” she said. “If you sign a contract containing the language quoted above, and you fail to make the payments, the contracting company can take away your home. So it’s imperative that you understand your obligations under the contract, and that you are confident you can meet those obligations. If you have doubts, consult an attorney before you sign.”
Cavanagh said people should also ask for a driver’s license and/or contractor’s license and write down those numbers, as well as the person’s address and a vehicle license plate number.
“Then contact the Better Business Bureau in the person’s home community or check online at http://www.bbb.org to determine whether there are any complaints,” she said. “Call your local Better Business Bureau office if you need assistance.”
She added that it is also important to ask for references and check them out, and never to sign a contract with blanks where unacceptable terms might be added later.
“Never pay a contractor in full or sign a completion certificate until the work is finished and
acceptable. And beware of salespeople who say they need to be paid in full before the work is complete.”
Cavanagh said after a disaster people often will have to share personal information in order to get relief benefits from government agencies or other organizations, or to obtain replacement identification documents.
“Be cautious,” she said, “because identity thieves may pose as government officials or representatives of government agencies. Ask for identification, and when possible, try to initiate the contact yourself using information on official websites or at official information centers.”
People working with contractors and others to repair their homes may be asked for
personal information so a credit check can be performed, she said.
“Be sure the business is legitimate before you give out your Social Security number or other
personal information,” she said. “If in doubt, don’t give it out.”
Cavanagh also suggested examining bank statements, credit card statements and other statements closely for any unauthorized purchases or withdrawals.
“About 60 days after the disaster, you should request copies of your credit report from all three major credit bureaus—Experian, TransUnion and Equifax,” she said. “Sometimes after a disaster, credit bureaus do not charge victims for their credit reports, so be sure to ask. And if you believe someone has committed identity theft against you or may do so in the future, you may want to add an Initial Security Alert to your personal credit report.”
She said this initial alert will remain for 90 days and will notify anyone who reviews your report to take extra steps to verify the identity before granting credit.
“You need to request the security alert with only one credit bureau,” she said. “That bureau should automatically notify the other two to place an alert on your file. But be aware that adding an alert to your credit report may prevent you from opening an account unless the creditor is able to get in touch with you and positively confirm your identity and that you are applying for credit.”
Cavanagh said additional information on preventing identity theft can be obtained at http://www.consumer.gov/idtheft.
Nancy Granovsky, AgriLife Extension family economics specialist, added that another scam people should be aware of relates to those who might try to fraudulently obtain money for disaster relief efforts.
“Some people will prey on the compassion and giving nature of others for their own benefit,” Granovsky said. “If you are approached by someone representing an organization you have never heard of soliciting donations for disaster relief, check them out before you write a check or drop any money into a bucket.”
She said it is usually safest to donate to either local agencies with which you are familiar or donate to larger national relief agencies, such as The Red Cross or Salvation Army, which are well-established and trusted organizations known for their disaster relief efforts.
Granovsky said a good rule of thumb with any organization to which you are contributing is to verify that at least 75 percent of the money donated will go to the specific effort to which you are contributing. She said going to http://www.charitynavigator.org or http://www2.guidestar.org can be helpful in assessing the legitimacy of a charity and analyzing its financial administration, and added that the Better Business Bureau website at http://www.bbb.org/us/charity can also provide information on what charities may have complaints registered against them.
“You can also go to the website for the Texas Office of the Attorney General for information or to register a complaint if you think you have been scammed by someone falsely representing a charitable organization,” Granovsky said.
The Office of the Attorney General has oversight authority over more than 50,000 active charitable organizations and trust entities, she said.
“Of course, you may want to consider giving your time to volunteering in relief efforts or providing canned foods or clothing instead of making a monetary donation,” she said. “But be sure to coordinate it with the people managing the emergency relief efforts to make sure you’re providing something the people affected by a disaster really need.”
-30-


MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://agrilife.org/today/files/2011/09/6120685415_6e2fc6a3e5_b-150x150.jpg




Harris named honorary member of the Entomological Society of America


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 16:04:15 +0000

COLLEGE STATION – The Entomological Society of America has bestowed honorary membership status upon Dr. Marvin Harris, a professor of entomology at Texas A&M University in College Station.
Dr. Marvin Harris named honorary member of the Entomological Society of America (Texas AgriLife Research photo by Allen Dean)


A release from the society said that the honor Harris received “acknowledges his service to the organization.” To earn the recognition, a member has to serve the society for at least 20 years through significant involvement in its affairs, and those efforts must have reached an extraordinary level.

Candidates are selected by the society’s governing board and then voted on by the membership. Harris and three others will be honored during the societies awards ceremony in November in Reno, Nevada.

Harris, who holds a joint appointment with Texas AgriLife Research and the university’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, has concentrated primarily on pecan insect work and the  mentoring of students throughout most of his academic career, according to the release.

His service to the Entomological Society of America has included numerous chairmanships of various committees and symposiums. He was also a southwestern branch representative to the society’s governing board from 2003 – 2009.
According the release, the Entomological Society of America is the largest such organization in the world, serving professional and scientific entomologists and those in related fields. The society currently has 6,000 members that include educators, health agency personnel, administrators, marketing representatives, research technicians, consultants and hobbyists.

For more information go to: http://www.entsoc.org .

-30-

MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://agrilife.org/today/files/2011/09/Marvin-Harris-150x150.jpg




Annual Randall County Ag Show and Crops Tour set for Sept. 20


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 15:57:46 +0000
CANYON – The 35th annual Randall County Ag Show and Crops Tour sponsored by the Texas AgriLife Extension Service is scheduled for Sept. 20, according to J.D. Ragland, AgriLife Extension agriculture and natural resource agent for Randall County.
The program will start at 8:30 a.m. with coffee and donuts sponsored by Panhandle-Plains Land Bank of Amarillo. The instructional portion will begin at 9 a.m. in the Dillehay Education Room of the Kuhlman Extension Center, 200 N. Brown Road, Canyon.
Three Texas Department of Agriculture continuing education units – two general, one integrated pest management – will be provided for all private pesticide applicators.
A $10 registration fee will be required for all attendees and is payable the day of the tour, Ragland said. However, those planning to attend are asked to RSVP by 5 p.m. Sept. 16 by calling the AgriLife Extension office in Randall County at 806-468-5543.
The educational program will have the following topics and speakers:
- 2011-12 Wheat and Small Grain Market and Pricing Outlook, Dr. Steve Amosson, AgriLife Extension economist, Amarillo.
- Dry Grains and Feed Management for Cattle During Drought, Dr. Ted McCollum, AgriLife Extension beef cattle specialist, Amarillo.
- 2011 Wheat Variety Results and Recommendations/Sorghum Update, Dr. Brent Bean, AgriLife Extension agronomist, Amarillo.
- 2011 Panhandle Corn Moth Trapping Program-Specifically Randall County, Dr. Ed Bynum, AgriLife Extension entomologist, Amarillo.
The luncheon and awards presentation will begin at noon, Ragland said. Wells Fargo Bank and Feldman’s of Canyon are this year’s lunch sponsors. Randall County Outstanding Demonstrator and Top Hand Awards will be presented.
Following the awards, the luncheon speaker will be Sherry Stephens, High Plains Underground Water District executive aide from Lubbock. She will be highlighting the High Plains Water District Rule Changes.
Before leaving the Kuhlman Center for the afternoon tour, short presentations will be provided by all booth exhibitor participants, introducing their latest products and technologies, Ragland said.
And this year, he said, the afternoon tour will only be one stop, due to the extremely dry conditions and their effect on all crops in Randall County.
The Crops and Beef Cattle Committee elected to feature an in-depth tour of Caviness Packing Plant in Hereford. At 1:30 p.m., participants will board a tour bus, sponsored by the Palo Duro Soil and Water Conservation District of Canyonand head for the plant, which is located approximately 3.5 miles west of Hereford on U.S. Highway 60.
The tour will conclude around 4:30 p.m.
-30-




Wildlife, feral hog management to be discussed at Ranch Management University


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:45:07 +0000
COLLEGE STATION – Wildlife management with special emphasis on feral hog control will be one of the featured topics at Ranch Management University Oct. 10-14 at Texas A&M University in College Station.
“The ongoing drought is forcing a lot of feral hogs to travel to new areas on ranches throughout Texas,” said Dr. Jim Cathey, Texas AgriLife Extension Service wildlife specialist. “We will be discussing trapping methods, design, placement and other methods pertaining to the feral hog along with other aspects of wildlife management on the ranch.”
Dr. Jim Cathey, Texas AgriLife Extension Service wildlife specialist, discusses wildlife management techniques with a participant at a recent Ranch Management University session in College Station. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Blair Fannin)

The fall workshop, to be held at the G. Rollie White Visitor’s Center, will include the following topics: soils and soil fertility, forage species selection, hay production, weed and brush management, winter pasture establishment and utilization.
Other topics include beef cattle breed selection, nutrient requirements and feeding strategies for livestock, grazing management strategies, a chute-side talk on live-animal handling and demonstrations of vaccinating, dehorning and castrating cattle.
Cathey said there will be sessions on sheep and goat production and management, as well as a session for horse owners. Breakfast, lunch, supper and break refreshments are  included in the registration cost, as is a resource CD containing more than 100 publications covering ranch resource management. A customized Ranch Management University ball cap is also provided.
Attendance is limited to 50 people and the slots are beginning to fill, Cathey said. Cost is $500.
For additional information, registration and preregistration information, contact Cathey at 979-845- 7471 or jccathey@nature.tamu.edu. To register online and for additional information, go to https://agriliferegister.tamu.edu and type in “ranch management” in the search window.
-30-




Watershed Management Series set for September/October in Lampasas


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 15:02:53 +0000

LAMPASAS – Watershed management is the subject of a three-part workshop series to be conducted by the Texas AgriLife Extension Service during September and October in Lampasas.

Dates, names, times and places for the three meetings are:

– Sept. 13, Rangeland Workshop, 9 a.m.-3 p.m. at Guyco Inc. located at 175 Private Road 3020, 2.5 miles east of Lampasas at the Crawford Party House.

– Sept. 27, Riparian Workshop, 8 a.m.-3 p.m. in the Courthouse Annex conference room at 409 Pecan Street in Lampasas.

– Oct. 18, Water Laws and Regulations Workshop, 6-9 p.m. in the Adamsville Community Center, located just off U.S. Highway 281 at 174 County Road 3750 in Adamsville.

The Rangeland and Riparian workshops will each offer three Texas Department of Agriculture continuing education units–one integrated pest management, one laws and regulations and one general.

The Rangeland Workshop topics will include soils, plant identification, range monitoring and stocking rates, brush management and a Farm Service Agency update.

The Riparian Workshop will offer talks on the Lampasas River Watershed Partnership, landowner goals and operation, riparian function, hydrology and fluvial morphology principles, and riparian vegetation.

The Water Laws and Regulations meeting will discuss surface water do’s and don’ts, and groundwater legislation.
Preregistration by Sept. 12 is required. Individual cost for the series is $25.

To preregister or for more information call the AgriLife Extension office in Lampasas County at 512-556-8271.

-30-





Earth-Kind landscaping and gardening seminar set Sept. 10 in San Benito


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 12:49:41 +0000
SAN BENITO — The Texas AgriLife Extension Service and the Cameron County Master Gardeners will hold an Earth-Kind landscaping and gardening seminar from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Sept. 10 at the San Benito High School cafeteria, 450 S. Williams Road in San Benito.
“This seminar is especially helpful because it integrates the best of organic and traditional gardening to create beautiful, productive easy-care landscapes, while providing maximum protection to natural resources and the environment,” said Jennifer Herrera, AgriLife Extension agent for horticulture in Cameron County.
The cost of attending the seminar is $65 and includes lunch and an Earth-Kind notebook.
This event is the second annual seminar, according to Carole Montemayor, a Texas Master Gardener. “This program was a huge success last year, and we’re expecting a healthy turnout again this year,” Montemayor said. “We’ll start off the seminar with explaining what Earth-Kind is and how it can help people landscape and garden. Other topics include Earth-Kind rose trials, improving existing soils, plants for our area, landscape design basics, water conservation and integrated pest management techniques.”
Demonstrations at the Cameron County Master Gardeners Association Arboretum will include composting, butterfly gardening, tree selection and rainwater harvesting, Montemayor said.
Speakers will include Dr. Greg Church, AgriLife Extension horticulturist in Collin County; Michael Potter, an AgriLife Extension horticulturist in Nueces County; Dr. Juan Anciso, AgriLife Extension vegetable specialist; and Brad Cowan, AgriLife Extension agent in Hidalgo County.
“There’s something for everyone at this seminar, whether they are a beginner or a professional,” Montemayor said. “It gives people a better idea of what they should be planting and how to make conditions better to reduce maintenance, but still have the nice yard or garden or whatever it is they are trying to create outdoors. They can also learn new techniques, including how to better manage their plants in drought conditions.”
To register or for more information, contact Rosalinda Sullivan at 956-498-7840, or Montemayor at 956-455-2096.
-30-
Jimmy Wilson, of Lawn Pros Chem-Green in Harlingen, explains integrated pest management to participants in last year's Earth-Kind seminar. (AgriLife Extension photo by Jennifer Herrera)

MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://agrilife.org/today/files/2011/09/EarthKind-150x150.jpg




AgriLife Extension offers wildfire recovery advice


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 21:43:08 +0000
COLLEGE STATION – As hundreds of homes have been completely destroyed in recent wildfires and many more sustained smoke damage, Texas AgriLife Extension Service is trying to help homeowners address “What next?”
Connie Wasson, Smith County assistant fire marshal, talks with Bill Dowmont, local resident of the Jacksonville Heights district about the local wildfire. The fire started from a outdoor grill, and ran so hot and fast that people were lucky to get out with their lives, according to Wasson. "With the winds like they were -- 30 mph or better -- no one had time to get out with anything but their lives. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Robert Burns)
Many homes have been burned to the ground in the recent outbreak of wildfires in Central and East Texas. This home burned in the Jackson Heights fire. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Robert Burns)
AgriLife Extension provides Texans and others with free, objective, research-based information to help with emergency and disaster preparation and recovery, according to Dr. Joyce Cavanagh, AgriLife Extension family economics specialist in College Station. The information is available through two websites and through agency personnel in county offices throughout the state.
The Texas Extension Disaster Education Network, or Texas EDEN, at http://texashelp.tamu.edu contains information and materials relating to specific disasters, such as the recent wildfires and information on disaster preparation and recovery.The AgriLife Bookstore website at http://agrilifebookstore.org contains a variety of emergency and disaster-related topics, including general preparedness, first aid, home, property and financial recovery.
Replacing Personal Documents After a Disaster and How to Remove Smoke Smell from a Home are examples of the links and information that can be found on the site.
Most materials can be downloaded and printed free of charge, and several are also available in Spanish.
Cavanagh said a number of safety issues also arise when returning to a home or business after a disaster, including possible structural damage, damage to electrical wires or gas lines, and the risk of contaminated water.
“After surviving a disaster, people should also be aware of the new dangers that crop up and take the necessary safety measures to ensure they survive the recovery phase too,” she said.
“As people return to their homes, their primary concern should be for their own safety and that of other family members,” Cavanagh said. “Listen to the authorities in the affected area and do not return home until they say it’s safe to do so.”
Once it’s safe to return, she said, bring supplies and wear clothing that will help sustain personal health and safety. She suggested taking a multi-use fire extinguisher, plenty of bottled water and a first-aid kit, and wear sturdy shoes with thick, preferably non-rubber soles, a long-sleeved shirt, long pants and work gloves.
“Those with property damage need to contact their insurance company, take photos of the damage and begin an inventory of damaged personal possessions for insurance purposes, then they can make temporary repairs to prevent further damage,” Cavanagh said. “Retain receipts for any supplies purchased for temporary repairs, as some or all of these costs may be reimbursed by homeowners insurance.”
She added that during the recovery process, it’s also a good idea to keep a ‘communications log’ of any conversations with the insurance company, local authorities and contractors or others providing home repairs in order to keep track of expected repair dates, estimated costs and specific actions to be taken or work to be done.
Cavanagh said the Texas Department of Insurance has offered guidance regarding insurance claims to Texans affected by wildfires. That information can be found at: http://www.tdi.texas.gov/news/2011/news201130.html.
-30-

MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://agrilife.org/today/files/2011/09/6120676481_5aaedfa00e_o-150x150.jpg




Texas crop, weather for Sept. 7, 2011


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 20:18:04 +0000
Row-watered cotton was doing better than some center-pivot irrigated cotton in some areas of the Southern High Plains. Most cotton in the southern High Plains is sub-surface drip or center- pivot irrigated, according to Dr. Mark Kelley, Texas AgriLife Extension Service cotton specialist, Lubbock. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Dr. Mark Kelley)
COLLEGE STATION – Cotton is a “mixed bag” in the Panhandle and South Plains, according to Texas AgriLife Extension Service personnel.
Most dryland cotton has failed, and in some areas, growers have given up on partially irrigated cotton as well. Also, there have been reports of odd plant development, most likely due to heat stress and lack of moisture.
“The cotton crop is suffering, for the most part, with lack of water when it was needed and is now showing up on boll set,” reported Rick Auckerman, Texas AgriLife Extension Service agent for Deaf Smith County, west of Amarillo. “There are cotton fields that have open bolls and blooms on the same plants. The cotton plants that are short of water have shed what bolls that they cannot support and are trying to finish out what is left.”
Two-minute MP3 audio version of Texas Crop, Weather for Sept. 7, 2011
“The small amount of cotton that was left in the county under irrigation has been cut off from water as producers are tired of paying input costs with cotton prices continuing to decline,” said Ryan Martin, AgriLife Extension agent for Motley County, southeast of Amarillo. “They are afraid that the profit margin may be too slim to make any money this year.”
“Cotton producers are dealing with a new late-season pest,” said Mark Brown, Lubbock County. “These are very small thrips that cause cupping followed by defoliation of leaves. It is more prevalent in moisture-stressed cotton.”
“We’re getting all sorts of things out there this year,” said Mark Kelley, AgriLife Extension cotton specialist, Lubbock. “We’re getting blooms and bolls opening on the same plant. The blooms Rick (Auckerman) was probably talking about are probably further out on the fruiting nodes.”
Southern High Plains Cotton bolls appeared “less fluffy” because of lower than normal seed counts, according to Dr. Mark Kelley, Texas AgriLife Extension Service cotton specialist, Lubbock.  The quality of this year's crop may also be affected.  (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Dr. Mark Kelley)Despite some odd plant development, the terminal part of the plant on most cotton has shut down, Kelley noted, and harvest is going to be a little early this year.
“We’ve got some that could kick off harvesting anytime now. I’ve seen some fields that have been defoliated,” he said. “It’s just a matter of that stuff drying down. So I expect to see harvesting begin within the next week or so.”
“Also, seed counts are down, so bolls won’t be as “fluffy” as usual and quality may take a hit, he said.
Kelley said he’s heard total crop projections of 2.5 million bales for the Panhandle and South Plains.
“I think that’s kind of optimistic, myself,” he said.
Last year, the region harvested 5.3 million bales, but that was a perfect year for cotton, Kelley said. A more average year would be about 4.4 million bales.
“But I don’t know what an average year is anymore,” he said.
More information on the current Texas drought and wildfire alerts can be found on the AgriLife Extension Agricultural Drought Task Force website at http://agrilife.tamu.edu/drought/ .
AgriLife Extension district reporters compiled the following summaries:
Map of the 12 Texas AgriLife Extension Service Districts
Central: Dry weather persisted across the region. Due to high winds and no rainfall, wildfire conditions were severe. Beef producers continued to sell cattle due to lack of water and insufficient hay. Ponds were either very low or completely dry.
Coastal Bend: Some areas received intermittent showers, but nothing substantial enough to change crop, pasture, rangeland or drought conditions. Farmers were deep-plowing fields so when rain comes they can capture as much moisture as possible. The cotton harvest neared completion with below-average yields. Cotton-stalk destruction continued. Livestock producers continued to sell cattle as there is no grass growing on rangeland, and hay is in short supply and is expensive when it can be found. Wildfires remained commonplace even though burn bans remained in place.
East: The region remained hot and dry. A few counties received scattered light showers, but the drought continued to worsen. Livestock producers were buying hay from other states, but the costs of hay and transportation charges were becoming too high for many. Some also had to haul water in for livestock, and others continued to cull their herds or sell out completely. Wildfire burned tens of thousands of acres and destroyed homes and outbuildings. Two lives, a mother and an infant child, were lost in one fire.
Far West: Drought conditions continued throughout the area. El Paso County peanut development was good, with nuts entering the gel stage. Cotton got a double whammy from the drought and environmental conditions; leaves were burned and bolls burst open by the heat, and there was disease pressure, most likely verticillium and fusarium with some root rot. Alfalfa growers were taking their fifth cutting. Most of the region was still under burn bans. Only irrigated crops were surviving.
North: Without rain, soil-moisture levels remained very short. With the hot, dry, windy weather, scattered fires broke out in many counties. Producers continued selling off livestock and were providing supplemental feed for the remaining cattle. There was no grass for grazing, and ponds were either very low or completely dry. Rangeland and pasture conditions were poor to very poor. Some producers were preparing fields in hope of being able to make fall plantings. The harvesting of all row crops was finished except for cotton, which was from 60 percent to 80 percent harvested.
Panhandle: The region continued to be rainless, but had cooler temperatures. The cooler weather helped ease some of the stress on cattle. Soil-moisture levels were from very short to short, with most counties reporting very short. Cotton was reported in mostly fair to poor condition. For the most part, cotton was suffering from a lack of water during the time when moisture was needed for boll set. Insect activity was very light. Rangeland and pastures were in mostly very poor condition. Livestock producers continued to reduce herds and to wean calves early. Supplemental feeding of livestock was also ongoing, with hay needs increasing and supplies very short. Most hay fed was trucked in from out of the region.
Rolling Plains: Cooler weather arrived. After nearly 100 days of 100-plus temperatures, a cold front brought 50s in the mornings and 80s in the afternoons. Some counties even reported a few showers, but most of the region remained dry, with the drought continuing and the wildfire danger high. Wildfires destroyed 6,500 acres, 40 structures and nine recreational vehicles this week in Palo Pinto County alone. Significant wildfire damage was also sustained in Wise County from recent fire, with 500 acres burned and several homes and outbuildings destroyed. A fire in Montague County burned 1,100 acres. Producers were still culling herds. Having enough water for livestock was an issue for many. Hay was being trucked in from all over the mid-western U.S. Remaining livestock were being given supplemental feed. The cotton crop was expected to be sparse. Even the fields under irrigation were not expected to produce much. Farmers needed moisture to prepare fields for wheat planting.
South: Rangeland, pastures and soil moisture remained in very poor condition throughout the region. Hay supplies were beginning to run short, and prices were increasing. With many pastures looking like bare ground, livestock producers had to provide even more supplemental feed for cattle. The high cattle numbers being sold at auction barns caused a decline on cattle prices. Temperatures ranged from the high 90s to 104 degrees. Coupled with high winds, the heat meant wild fires were breaking out throughout the region. The cotton harvest in Frio County was completed. Peanuts under irrigation in that area remained in good condition. In Zavala County, land preparation for planting wheat and oats were under way. In Cameron County, growers continued irrigating some citrus groves and sugarcane fields. In Hidalgo County, corn was being planted, and most cotton had been harvested.
South Plains: Cooler temperatures brought relief from the region’s hottest summer on record. Scattered light rain fell in some counties over the weekend, bringing highs down to the upper 60s to mid 70s and lows in the 50s. Drought and burn bans continued despite the cooler temperatures. Producers were preparing for an early harvest of what cotton remained. Several Bailey County producers were harvesting corn. Cattle were still being culled, shipped or moved to areas with more water since tanks were drying up and hay was costly and scarce.
Southwest: Daytime highs dropped from 110 to the upper 90s on Labor Day, but high, dry winds continued to aggravate the drought and create dust storms. The region remained in wildfire-alert status. The high winds also fanned more than 60 new field fires, burning more than 30,000 acres of rangeland in Bastrop, Bexar, Travis, Williamson and other counties. More than 500 homes had been destroyed in Bastrop County at the time of this report. Landowners were removing silt and making other improvements to dry stock tanks. Almost all forage had either been used by cattle or wildlife. Some ranchers have liquidated their herds. Others have reduced their herds so they could run minimum stocking rates and thereby maintain carefully developed herd genetics. But they were providing large amounts of supplemental feed for remaining livestock. The cotton harvest was winding down. About half of this year’s cotton harvest remained in field-stored modules. Most dryland and partially irrigated cotton had failed. The sweet corn harvest resumed. Peanuts, pecans and landscape nursery crops continued to make good progress wherever irrigation water was still available.
West Central: A cool front brought temperatures down from the triple digits. A few areas reported some scattered rain, but overall, the weather continued to be dry, and crop conditions poor. Soil-moisture levels remained extremely low. Field crops were almost non-existent unless they were irrigated. Cotton was all very poor. Wildfires continued to be a big issue in all areas. Livestock producers were still searching for additional hay sources, and herd liquidations increased. All water sources further declined.
-30-

MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://agrilife.org/today/files/2011/09/crop-weather-0907-LR-150x150.jpg




Matador Ranch to host AgriLife Extension wildlife and wildfire field day on Sept. 21


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 18:16:50 +0000

Ryan Martin, 806-347-2733, rhmartin@ag.tamu.edu
MATADOR – The Texas AgriLife Extension Service will conduct “Wildlife and Wildfire: Arising from the Ashes” on the Matador Ranch in Motely County.

The program will be from 8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. Sept. 21 on the ranch located a half-mile south of Matador on Texas Highway 70. The ranch’s entrance is on the west side of the road.

Two Texas Department of Agriculture continuing education units will be offered to those with a private applicator’s license.
Ryan Martin, AgriLife Extension agent in Motley County, said the field day’s purpose is to explore ways to survive a devastating fire coupled with prolonged drought.

“The 2011 fire season has been unprecedented in its scope and as such has impacted several million acres of wildlife habitat,” he said. “The Matador Ranch is a prime example, as it suffered one of the first fires of the season with about 40,000 acres impacted. Our aim is to hear their story and also to listen to experts from AgriLife Extension, the Natural Resources Conservation Service and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department as they share their knowledge.

“We encourage landowners, hunters and others interested in wildlife management to attend.”

Dr. Dale Rollins, AgriLife Extension wildlife specialist at San Angelo and one of the program speakers, monitored quail response to the large wildfires that swept the Texas Panhandle in 2006.

“What we observed was that sandier soils recovered much faster than did the clay-loam sites,” he said. “The sand shinoak on sandy soils comes back almost immediately to provide quail cover and deer browse.

“This year, the double-whammy of fire and exceptional drought pose a scenario like nothing we’ve ever seen before and the weather forecasters suggest more of the same this winter. During this program, we’ll be offering various short- and long-term management recommendations to mitigate the negative impacts of these and future wildfires.”

“As bad as these fires are, they do afford us an opportunity to monitor the effects, both good and bad, on wildlife habitat and game populations,” Rollins said. “We just initiated and will discuss ‘Operation Phoenix’ during the field day. This study is meant to gauge the response of bobwhites on nine large fires across the Rolling Plains. We know it’s just a matter of time until we see more wildfires, so the more we can learn about them now, the more prepared we’ll be the next time.”

Individual preregistration is $15 and includes lunch. RSVP by Sept. 16 by contacting the AgriLife Extension office in Motley County at 806-347-2733 or rhmartin@ag.tamu.edu  .




Bessler named Agricultural and Applied Economics Association Fellow


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 16:02:27 +0000
COLLEGE STATION – Dr. David Bessler, a Regents Professor in the department of agricultural economics at Texas A&M University, recently was named Fellow of the Agricultural and Applied Economics Association, a recognition held by less than 3.6 percent of association membership.
Bessler received the recognition for career contributions in the field of time-series econometrics and applications to commodity markets and price forecasting. The award was given recently at the association’s national conference in Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dr. David Bessler, Regents Professor in the department of agricultural economics at Texas A&M University.

In addition to research, Bessler has made career contributions to the classroom, teaching, mentoring and service, said Dr. John Nichols, department head.
    “David has been a leader in strengthening the department’s culture of research scholarship and graduate student engagement,” Nichols said. “He’s a scholar’s scholar. His productivity and excitement for economics and time-series analysis is inspirational for all who come into contact with him through his professional activities. This recognition is a high honor for David, the department and Texas A&M.”
His 34-year record of innovation in methods of inference and forecasting with economic time-series data has contributed to new approaches to issues of causation and understanding of economic phenomena in commodity markets, Nichols said.
Bessler has received numerous professional awards for his publications and scholarship. At Texas A&M, he was named a Regents Professor in 2007. In 2006, he received the Association of Former Students Award for Distinguished Achievement in Graduate Student Mentoring. That same year he received the inaugural Presidential Award for Faculty Service to International Students. In 2003, he received the Vice Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Research.
Bessler earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Arizona. He earned his doctorate from the University of California-Davis and joined the department of agricultural economics at Texas A&M in 1982.
-30-






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


