5 work rules you should break on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




 the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your futureanderson cooper




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Tuesday, September 13, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS







5 work rules you should break



partner


by Real Simple Magazine, on Wed Sep 7, 2011 4:59pm PDT


244 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse








 


By Patrick Doyle




Most people think they know the keys
to career success: Keep your head down and nose to the grindstone.
Avoid personal, emotional, or awkward subjects (in fact, any
elephant in the room) at all costs. Well, guess again. Here,
experts reveal five on-the-job maxims that are worth
challenging. 
Stay Away From Emotional TopicsIn my
opinion, you should always bring a problem out into the open, even
if it's personal, difficult, or awkward. Say you and a
colleague have different work styles or have clashed over a
project, and as a result there is serious tension between the two
of you. Tiptoeing around the issue may cause your productivity to
suffer, so it's crucial that you confront your coworker. You
can say, "You seem to dispute every point I make, and I
don't understand. Did I do something to upset you?" If you
talk about it, the situation won't spiral out of control or
become a pattern.
Sean O'Neil is a management consultant based in Pelham, New
York, and a coauthor of Bare Knuckle People Management
($15, 
amazon.com).

See More: How to Break Bad Habits
Climb the Career Ladder
There's pressure in our culture to earn more money and to have
important titles. But not everyone wants more responsibility and
power. And what we don't hear often enough is that it's OK
not to want a promotion. So move laterally, or choose
self-employment if you think that will make you happy. It won't
hold you back; on the contrary, having a nonlinear career path can
make you more intriguing to bosses in the future, not less.
They'll view you as having broader experience.
Michelle Goodman is the author of The Anti 9-to-5 Guide
($15, 
amazon.com) and a career columnist for ABCnews.com.
Do What You Were Hired to Do
Your boss has to look at the bigger picture all the time—she'll
admire you for doing the same. If you pay attention to your
organization as a whole, you'll better appreciate what other
people do—and you might come up with macro ways to help the
company. It's a fine line between offering assistance and
stepping on someone's toes. But if you have the best intentions
at heart, you can say, "I see an opportunity here that
we're not taking advantage of."
Adam Bryant is the deputy national editor of the New York Times
and the author of The Corner Office ($25, 
amazon.com).

See More: How to Stop Procrastinating
Live at the Office
For many of us, our careers are not our life's passions. So
it's essential to pursue outside interests—both for our
happiness and to facilitate our creativity at work. Amazing
discoveries and insights are often made when people are tinkering
in the garage, gardening, or riding a bike. Plus, hobbies help give
us a sense of peace. And once we relax for a moment, the answer to
a work problem will often reveal itself.
Karen Burns is the author of The Amazing Adventures of
Working Girl ($15, 
amazon.com).
Network 24/7
It's inefficient to walk into a cocktail party or an industry
event and start mingling with random people. My suggestion? Throw
away every business card tucked away in your wallet and work
social-media connections instead. You can get in touch with
important people who interest you, whether they're in your
industry or not. Retweet messages of theirs, ask them questions,
and strike up online relationships. From there, it can be easy to
get them to meet you for lunch or coffee—where you'll connect
in a real, personal way that will ultimately help your career.
Penelope Trunk is an entrepreneur, a blogger, and the author of
Brazen Careerist ($26, 
amazon.com).

See More: 5 Things You Shouldn't Say to a Recent
College Graduate
Don't Miss:

13 Productive Things to Do While Watching TV

The 5 Rules of Working From Home

How to Make a Good First Impression

Related: working, work rules you should break, work rules, work, breaking rules





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 244 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by beclawat 13 hours ago

What makes you think that every employed US citizen works in an OFFICE??  This advice is hubris!!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Jim 13 hours ago

I see that who wrote this has never work for a living.Half of these ideas will get you out the door at most companys.Never, Never, Never let anyone at the company, know your personal problems. Anyone. worst of all HR.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Richard 13 hours ago

What nonsense.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Simon James 13 hours ago

And don't forget to brown nose and kiss ass at every opportunity.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by helloitskatiee 13 hours ago

this was really useless and dumb. I was looking for something a little more exciting

Report Abuse

 


Posted by a smart man 13 hours ago

social media....

Report Abuse

 


Posted by American Crisis 13 hours ago

Do not ever share your personal problems with ANYONE at the office, let me repeat this fine point DO NOT EVER SHARE PERSONAL PROBLEMS WITH ANYONE AT THE OFFICE OR ANY JOB FOR THAT MATTER. Article is full of junk, this is why a company will fail, it has employees who get promoted on the above doctrine. Yahoo is a good example.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Chris 13 hours ago

Here is some advise for you, Patrick Doyle. Quit your day job. Unless this is your side job, then quit your side job.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Linz 13 hours ago

This is certainly not what they're telling me as an almost-grad. Bulls--- there, bulls--- here.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Ninja 13 hours ago

I Love ALL these advice!

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 244 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















 Cheat Sheet



5 jobs worth going back to school for10 tips for a successf from women leadersNegotiate the raise you deserveSchools accommodate different learning styles







Power Your Future poll




Are you in the career you planned to be in?





Yes.
 

No. I switched careers after my first job.
 

No. I've switched careers several times.
 

No. I never got a job in the field I thought I'd enter.








See Results »










Are you in the career you planned to be in?





Yes.

 
30%


 

No. I switched careers after my first job.

 
10%


 

No. I've switched careers several times.

 
19%


 

No. I never got a job in the field I thought I'd enter.

 
41%







« Vote on this question



sponsored by:




power your future pick of the day


Cherie Wood's path to city hall



Cherie Wood, the first female mayor of South Salt Lake,  is also the first to rise through the ranks as a government employee rather than elected office. Here's how she did it.
 Posted by Yahoo! Originals and Lylah M. Alphonse




Watch video »



Power Your Future FYI:

Earning a degree can have many benefits; as a parent, it can result in better test results for children. Want to be a role model?


Read more »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Get your closet ready for fall
With these iPhone apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »











Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


35 Things I've Learned in my 35 Years

15 Failed Celebrity BusinessesSaving for the Small Stuff


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 5

Weigh in: "Natural hair is not a man magnet"The Scoop on Banana Republic's Mad Men Collection


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


Which running shoes are best for you?

30 Tricks to Lose One Pound a WeekAlternatives to sitting in a desk chair


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


User Post: How To Have Your Child Potty-Trained By Age 2

The Low-Down on LiceShould You Pierce Baby's Ears? Yay or Nay?


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Jennifer Lopez rebounds with Bradley Cooper, Hollywood's first choice in groove retrieval.

Is Playing Hard to Get a Turn On or Turn Off?Dear Whys Guy: "Why Does My Husband Complain So Much?"


More in Love + Sex »



Food


One-Pot Family Meal: Margarita Carmona's Chili Verde

10 Amazing Bacon DishesMeet the New Olive Oil (and the Other New Olive Oil)


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


7 New Kids' Books for Back-to-School

4 healthy, delicious ways to spice up oatmeal for kidsStrap on your baby and boogie!


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day
















 

