New Heights of Penthouse Luxury - Yahoo! Real Estate




New User? RegisterSign InHelpMake Y! Your HomepageYahoo!MailMy Yahoo!NewsFinanceSports   Search       Web Search    






Find a HomeFinance and MortgageNeighborhood InfoGuides and AdviceMy Real EstateFor Professionals 
Saved Searches 
Saved Homes
Manage Alerts






Expert AdviceHow-to GuidesNewsGlossary

















 Search: 

 Homes for Sale 
 New Homes 
 Foreclosures 
 Apartments for Rent 

 in 




 









 New Heights of Penthouse Luxury 
 

 By Morgan Brennan, Forbes.com 
 September 9, 2011 


 Provided by: 












 

Send

 

Print

 


Share this page

FacebookTwitterMyspaceDeliciousDiggStumbleUpon













This stylish $11.9 million Los Angeles penthouse condo has gorgeous views.Photo: Coldwell Banker Previews International
Perched 20 stories above the ground on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, the 13,800-square-foot penthouse at 535 West End Ave. is a lavish palace in the sky. Its three-floor layout boasts nine bedrooms, 11 full baths, two half baths and separate staff quarters. A 2,000-square-foot outdoor space equipped with grill, wet bar and fireplace is accessible by a private elevator. Building amenities include a fitness center, an indoor swimming pool and a recreation room, all attended to by white-gloved staff.
This opulent “mansion in the sky” totes a hefty price tag of $37.5 million. It’s up for grabs alongside other posh New York penthouses like a $37.5 million condo unit at The Plaza, a $51 million duplex on the Upper East Side, and a $44.95 million, 76th floor apartment in the Time Warner Center.
Slideshow: Palatial Penthouses for Sale
With the help of Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate, Sotheby’s International Realty, Coldwell Banker Previews International, Realtor.com and Trulia.com (among others), we’ve pulled together a list of available sky-high spreads scattered across America. Priced between $2 million and $45 million, most offer multilevel layouts, soaring views (in many cases via floor-to-ceiling windows), high ceilings, private rooftop terraces and additional over-the-top features such as private pools.
Listing, buying and selling of luxury residential real estate, which includes these units, has picked up in nearly every major metropolitan market across the U.S. “Relative to everybody else, the higher-end market is where we’re seeing record purchases and where we’re seeing traction,” says Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, a New York-based real estate appraisal firm. Miller says that because of the weaker dollar, foreign buyers have flocked to the luxe condo market, particularly on the East and West coasts.
Cold, hard cash has a lot to do with that pickup as well. While sales of less expensive homes struggle to manifest under ever-tightening mortgage lending practices, the luxury end is comprised of home buyers with money to throw down. All-cash deals on single-family homes in general have constituted roughly 30% of completed sales this summer, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Those with more money to burn might consider the $12 million Wilshire Corridor penthouse, a 6,480-square-foot glass-walled marvel featuring a separate maid’s quarters and a fiber optic chandelier. “Good times, bad times there are penthouse buyers out there, looking for the right opportunity,” says Ron Barnes, director of sales and marketing for the Residences at W Hollywood, noting these sales can take anywhere from three months to three years to manifest no matter what the larger market conditions are.
Despite increased market activity, penthouses speak to a tiny, niche pool of buyers. As with other luxury properties (like single-family estates, townhouses and even vineyards), penthouse units can take months, sometimes years, to market and sell. In some cases, pricey penthouses have failed to find buyers willing to pay their lofty asking prices. Take the 20,000-square-foot home on top of San Francisco’s St. Regis hotel, for example, which at one time was listed for $70 million before the property’s developer sold the deed to Second Step Asset Management, a subsidiary of Bank of America, in lieu of a foreclosure. The apartment touts a two-story indoor waterfall, home theater and master suite with gym, sauna and steam room. The bank re-listed the unit in July, at $35 million price tag, half the original price.
Are these five palatial penthouses for sale worthy of elevated prices?
10800 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA
List Price: $12 million
Stepping out of this Wilshire Boulevard penthouse is also nice.Photo: Zillow
Brightly-hued hallways, two-story walls of glass gazing out on Los Angeles and the ocean, and spiral staircase adorned with a fiber optic chandelier add pizazz to the Wilshire Corridor condo.
The Setai Condos, Miami Beach, FL
List Price: $27 million
 A garden terrace and pool highlight this swank Miami penthouse.Photo: ONE Sotheby's International Realty
A “traditional Thai home in the sky,” this unit comes with interiors adorned in custom wood paneling, a garden terrace with pool, and resort amenities like 24-hour room service.
2900 McKinnon Street, Dallas, TX
List Price: $7.5 million
This ritzy Dallas penthouse is perfect for entertaining guests.Photo: Trulia.com
The Azure duplex condo includes three en suite bedrooms with balconies and a roof-top entertainment terrace with pool, spa, theater screen, enclosed bar and private elevator to the inside living area.
The Plaza, New York, NY
List Price: $37.5 million
This Plaza Hotel penthouse overlooks NYC's Central Park.Photo: Trulia.com
This triplex penthouse boasts four bedrooms gazing out on Central Park, a library with wood-burning fireplace, a cantilevered spiral staircase, a private elevator and access to the Plaza's hotel services.
The Residences at the W Hollywood, Los Angeles, CA
List Price: $2.16 million
This penthouse at the W Hollywood deserves its own star.Photo: Residences at the W Hollywood
Concierge service, including room service, is available to residents of this upscale Hollywood residence. If you need to travel, the building will whisk you to a nearby airport to board a private jet. Alas, your Starwood points may not be sufficient to buy a penthouse.
Click here to see more Palatial Penthouses for Sale.












 

Send

 

Print

 


Share this page

FacebookTwitterMyspaceDeliciousDiggStumbleUpon












 More from Yahoo! Real Estate: 

   >   Massive Cathedral to be Rebuilt with Cardboard Sep 2, 2011 — Inman News   >   America's Most Expensive Homes for Sale Aug 31, 2011 — Forbes.com   >   Living Large In Ritzy Log Cabins Aug 25, 2011 — CNBC.com   >   Where Celebrities Go to Escape It All Aug 25, 2011 — CNBC.com






  AdChoices











 Search San Francisco Mortgage Rates 



 Location 



 Loan Amount 



 Loan Purpose 

 Purchase 
 Refinance 
 Home Equity 



 Loan Type 

 Fixed 
 ARM 
 Interest Only 










 California Mortgage Rates 
 Updated Friday, September 9, 2011 

 Mortgage Type 
 15 Yr Fixed: 
 30 Yr Fixed: 


 Today 
 3.597% 
 4.365% 


 Last Week 
 3.849% 
 4.644%


 Change 
   -0.251%  
   -0.279%  


 Graph 
  graph  
  graph  

 See more rates 






 Most Recent Articles by the Experts 


  

 Dian Hymer: 
 Real Estate and Personal Finance 



  Make contingent-sale offer more enticing   Tue, Sep 6, 2011   5 reasons real estate hasn't recovered   Mon, Aug 29, 2011 


 See all articles from Dian Hymer » 




  

 Bill and Kevin Burnett: 
 Sweat Equity 



  Best floor choices if you have pets   Wed, Sep 7, 2011   Old low-flow toilet doesn't save water   Wed, Aug 31, 2011 


 See all articles from Bill and Kevin Burnett » 



 See all Expert Advice 


















 Location 


 City & State or ZIP 


 Listings Type 

 Homes for Sale 
 New Homes 
 Foreclosures 
 Apartments for Rent 





 Price  (optional)  
  to 



 Beds  (optional)  

 Any 
 Studio+ 
 1+ 
 2+ 
 3+ 
 4+ 
 5+ 



 Baths  (optional)  

 Any 
 1+ 
 2+ 
 3+ 
 4+ 











 »   Add Real Estate to Yahoo! Toolbar 
 »   Browse by State or City 


 Homes for Sale  -
     Apartments for Rent  -
     Home Values  -
     Mortgages  -
     Real Estate Agents  -
     Foreclosures  -
     Refinance Mortgage  -
     Home Equity Loans  -     Real Estate Advertising 

 Top Cities: 

Atlanta real estate | Austin real estate | Chicago real estate | Denver real estate | Houston real estate | Las Vegas real estate | Myrtle Beach real estateOrlando real estate | Phoenix real estate | San Antonio real estate | San Diego real estate | San Francisco real estate | Seattle real estate | Tucson real estate

 Top States: 

Arizona | California | Colorado | Florida | Georgia | Hawaii | Illinois | Indiana | Maryland | Massachusetts | Michigan | Minnesota | Missouri | NevadaNew Jersey | New York | North Carolina | Ohio | Oklahoma | Oregon | Pennsylvania | South Carolina | Texas | Tennessee | Utah | Virginia | Washington | Wisconsin

 Related Yahoo! Services: 

Personal Financial Advice - Downloads
 
 Partner with Yahoo! Real Estate 


 Some Yahoo! Real Estate information is provided by our trusted partners. 
 However, Yahoo! does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any third party content. 
 

A REALTOR® is a real estate professional who is a member of the National
Association of REALTORS® Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy - About Our Ads - Terms of Service - Copyright/IP Policy

  | Yahoo!-Zillow Real Estate Network









