The 2 healthiest oils to cook with, 2 to skip - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to SchoolFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty


Trending Now»daily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots



















The 2 healthiest oils to cook with, 2 to skipBy Brierley Wright, M.S., R.D. | EatingWell – Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 1:30 PM EDT


 


For health reasons, many people—me included—have traded butter
for oil. But there are lots of oil options out there and some are
healthier than others. So which ones are best? Here are two to pick
and two to skip:
Butter or Margarine: Which Is Healthier?
Top oils to buy
If you have limited pantry space and a limited budget, these two
oils will cover your basic cooking and baking needs.
1. Extra-Virgin Olive Oil
Why buy extra-virgin olive oil: Olive oil is a
monounsaturated fat and research shows that monounsaturated fats
help keep “bad” LDL cholesterol low and boost levels of “good” HDL
cholesterol. In addition, extra-virgin olive oil is high in
antioxidants called polyphenols that have been linked to heart
health. “Pure” olive oil (i.e., not virgin) doesn’t contain these
“bonus” antioxidants. Find out what the other olive oil labels mean and
get the EatingWell Test Kitchen’s picks for our favorite
brands.
How to use extra-virgin olive oil: Use olive
oil in dishes that benefit from its rich flavor. Drizzle it on
steamed vegetables, mix it into a salad dressing, use a little to
sauté vegetables. Or use it in baking in place of butter. Find 9 more healthier swaps for all your recipes
here.
2. Canola Oil
Why buy canola oil: Neutral flavor and a high
smoke point—the point at which an oil literally begins to
smoke—make canola an excellent choice for baking and sautéing.
Smoke point is an important consideration if you’re planning to
cook at high heat—as you do when you’re frying or grilling. At an
oil’s smoke point, nutrients are destroyed and potentially
health-harming compounds are formed. Canola oil generally doesn’t
have many antioxidants, as olive oil does, but it does have a
relatively long shelf life. In addition, canola is the richest
cooking-oil source of alpha-linolenic acid, an omega-3 fat that has
been linked to heart health.
How to use canola oil: Extremely versatile,
canola oil is great for sautéing, roasting, baking and making salad
dressings.
If you have more pantry space or cooking needs, here are 3 more healthy oils to try.
Oils to skip
1. Soybean Oil
Why skip soybean oil: Soybean oil—often labeled
as an ingredient in vegetable oil—is high in omega-6 fats, which
compete in your body with healthy omega-3 fats (the kind that
benefit your heart and brain). Many nutrition experts say that
Americans get too many omega-6 fats in their diets, mostly from
processed foods, including Joe Hibbeln, M.D., a Captain in the
United States Public Health Service. He takes it a step further and
blames alcoholism, depression and a host of other illnesses on the
excess of omega-6 fats in our diet.
In fact, it’s quite difficult to find commercial salad
dressings, mayonnaise, even crackers, breads, pasta sauces and
granola bars, among other products, that don’t include oils with
high levels of omega-6 fats. Here are some of the healthiest packaged salad
dressings, mayonnaise, crackers, pasta sauces and granola
bars.
2. Palm Oil
Why skip palm oil: While you can find palm oil
for cooking, you’re more likely to find it in packaged foods as
many food manufacturers are replacing heart-damaging trans fats
(hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated oils) with palm oil. While
palm oil is trans-fat-free, about half of its fat is saturated,
adding about 1.5 grams sat fat to each 2-tablespoon serving—and a
diet high in saturated fat has been linked with elevated
cholesterol levels and increased risk for heart disease. Though you
may have heard that palm oil has less of a cholesterol-raising
effect than other tropical oils, the research isn’t conclusive.
Your best bet is to choose natural products that contain neither
added palm oil nor trans fats.
In addition, recent research shows that palmitic acid, a
saturated fat found in palm oil (and beef, butter and cheese),
caused mice to become resistant to the appetite-suppressing
hormones leptin and insulin, which in theory could make them eat
more.
What oils are in your
kitchen/pantry?


Brierley's interest in nutrition and food come together in
her position as nutrition editor at EatingWell. Brierley
holds a master's degree in Nutrition Communication from the
Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts
University. A Registered Dietitian, she completed her undergraduate
degree at the University of Vermont.
Related Links from EatingWell:
Is Coconut Oil Healthy?6 of the Healthiest Fish to Eat, 6 to
AvoidBad Foods You Should be EatingFree Newsletters: Easy, healthy recipes plus health
and weight loss tips. Sign up now!







All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        81 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













Margo C
11 hours ago

Canola oil is high in monounsaturates, but let me explain why canola oil is anything but "healthy".

Canola oil is made from something called rapeseed. Rapeseed actually had to be bred over the years to reduce the percentage of a problematic component of rapeseed, which is erucic acid.

Important note on canola oil "urban legends":  There is a problem with most websites that DEFEND canola oil, saying that internet "urban legends" on the dangers of canola oil are unfounded.  The problem is that these websites that defend canola oil ONLY talk about the issue of erucic acid.  The issue of erucic acid IS an urban legend, because erucic acid has been bred out to very low levels over the years, so it is a non-issue.

However, these websites that defend canola oil are barking up the wrong tree because they don't address the issue of the processing of canola oil and oxidation of the polyunsaturated component of canola oil, which is what makes it unhealthy for human consumption.  THAT'S the real issue that they either don't understand (because they are not nutrition experts) or are simply ignoring.




 








Disco Kitty
9 hours ago

pfft canola.. FAIL! Coconut oil is the best for high heat cooking..also one of the healthiest and most diverse oils. (use it for cooking, moisturizing and more!) Olive Oil also rules.




 








MATT
8 hours ago

Who paid for this ad?? Who is the "expert" who wrote this sheet?? In general North American food is sheety and always be careful what you take to your mouth. Many years ago I started to buy groceries from European stores and my alergies, rushes and permanent diaehrea stopped immediately. North Americans have no culture and attitude to prepare food and eat it according to common rules. They eat all crap while commuting, sitting in the movie theater and routinely heating up the leftovers during lunch hours at work, The brand of cooking oil is completely irrelevant.




 








Claire
7 hours ago

I use evoo for just about everything; for baking I use coconut oil or grapeseed oil - I never want to use canola oil again.




 








Anita
12 hours ago

Every week someone tells us what is good and what is bad, then the list changes when researchers are paid by the loosers to do another study.  Use lard, and butter.  Next week they will be on the good list.  As they have said it is all "inconclusive".  The food industry uses whatever is cheap and the consumer will buy according to the current opinion on what is good.  There are also 30,000 additives put into food to enhance and keep them from spoiling.  Research them for yourself.  What we put in our mouths is astonishing.




 








DONNA STEVENSON
6 hours ago

Safflower Oil is good and has no taste.




 








eviltweety69
11 hours ago

Safflower Oil is really good to use.




 








bananaramma
11 hours ago

Dont be fooled into buying Light Olive Oil, this does not mean lower calories just its color!




 








BOBBIE  P
11 hours ago

Make up your minds which is good or bad. I am fed up with these mind games.ME i use what i got, dont go crazy Ilike shortening for pies it is flakey and tastes better.




 








Heim Daisylady
12 hours ago

I question canola oil due to farming




 








RSFWATER
12 hours ago

Any food always changes its molecular structure during the thermal treatment as well as the internal ingredients are changing their features due to chemical reaction in which oil and frying products are participating. Resume.  So trying to treat the people's mind pushing us to by those product which has to be sold first today is not smart idea.




 








Rontin
6 minutes ago

What a coincidence that we're told to eat something because its healthy when its in season and/or its something that drives the economy!  Our food has become downright toxic - a slow poison.




 








Sergio
8 minutes ago

What about grape seed oil? This is supposed to be the best with even a higher burn point than canola. Just has a really short shelf life.




 








CarolynE
19 minutes ago

What about grapeseed oil - not mention of that!
Also you should not cook at high temperatures (ie frying) with olive oil




 








don
about an hour ago

Think you should be more concerned with the term Meat Glue.




 








mikey
2 hours ago

canola oil! healthy?????? someone needs to go back to college. 

First of all, canola is made from rapeseed. Rapeseed is used to make heavy duty greese for large industral machinery, like tractors, cranes etc. This greese is non edible.

 In order for this "non food" product to be turned into "food" for humans basically everything has to be taken out and burned off...denatured. Leaving a colorless, orderless,  unatural product that is "fit" for human consumption.

The same marketing scams that have been used to sell smoking(dr approved!), white bread, sugar, and more are at work here. Do yourselfs a favor, eat REAL food and live long. Throw those junk foods in the trash where they belong as they are not fit for human/animal consumption.




 








joanie292002
4 hours ago

Canola Oil is almost exclusively GMO..so how can oyu even say it is healthy?
Was this ad brought to oyu by Monsanto..look up Percy Schmeiser vs. Monsanto-says it all.




 








sandra c
5 hours ago

Duh.




 








Mike
6 hours ago

You've got to be kidding me. Canola oil is GMO. It is genetically modified rapeseed. It can also be used as biodeisel. What kind of idiot writes these articles. I believe the two oils should be extra virgin coconut and olive. Two healthy NATURAL oils.




 








WonderWomen
7 hours ago

Oh oh and take some meat patty, replace the buns with krespy cream donuts, them batter it up and deep dry it in the peanut oil, lard and duck fat. Its really good for skin tone.








   More
                        



 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
New York Fashion Week
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesRuffling Feathers in Montreal: Gordon Ramsay's Canadian RotisserieFood Network - 14 hours agoCancer-fighting virus50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 tips for healthy kids50Plus.com - 15 hours ago8 tips for surviving fall allergies50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 habits for a heart healthy lifestyle50Plus.com - 15 hours ago

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play Video'Miracle Babies' Last Hope
Play VideoCould SpongeBob Be Bad for Kid …
Play VideoAnxiety about abductor
Play VideoPink fire truck hits the stree …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 48prevnext
Clinton's surprise gesture at 9/11 memorial
Teen star's TIFF outfit raises eyebrows
The 25 most powerful images from 9/11
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
See the cast of 'Home Improvement' now















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending Nowdaily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots














                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















