Amy Winehouse's Loved Ones Pay Tearful Tribute on Anderson Cooper's New Talk Show - Manage Your Life on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




 the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your futureanderson cooper




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Manage Your Life
Tuesday, September 13, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: fall fashion




Amy Winehouse's Loved Ones Pay Tearful Tribute on Anderson Cooper's New Talk Show



user


by Erin Carlson, The Famous, 13 hours ago


121 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse










Amy Winehouse (Dave Hogan/Getty Images)

Two days before her death,
Amy Winehouse was looking forward. "She was excited and upbeat
because we were going to a wedding,'' her boyfriend, Reg
Traviss, said on Anderson Cooper's new daytime
talk show.

Traviss said it was hard for him to navigate the delicate nature of
his girlfriend's addiction without pushing her away.
“There were ups and downs. We did talk about it,” Traviss
said. “You have to choose the right time because you don’t want to
be someone who’s nagging. You can’t preach about it.”

He said he would choose his moments carefully to bring up her
addiction. "Amy was a really clever girl. She knew what she
was doing. She would often say she wouldn't have a drink for a
while."
At this time, were she still alive, Traviss, a film
director, said they'd be on vacation in St. Lucia, one of the
singer's favorite places to unwind. She would have turned 28 on
Wednesday.
"I loved everything about Amy,"
gushed Traviss. "Her cheekiness, her wit. She was really
funny. She could see a situation from a mile away."

Cooper invited an entire panel of loved ones on his all-Amy
premiere episode of "Anderson," which debuted Monday. The
singer's mother, Janis Winehouse, appeared alongside ex-husband
Mitch -- they divorced 17 years ago -- and her stepmom, lookalike
aunt, Rene Selner, and boyfriend, Traviss.


Related: Amy Winehouse's distinctive style &
talent



Watch Reg Traviss on Anderson:




Amy Winehouse's father, Mitch, said he believes his daughter
died from a seizure related to alcohol withdrawal. In a tearful
interview on Anderson Cooper's new daytime talk show, Mitch
Winehouse said: "She had a seizure ... when there was no one
to save her."

He said the Grammy-winning jazz singer, who famously struggled with
a crippling alcohol and drug addiction, had quit drinking before
her death on July 23 at the age of 27. She'd suffered a series
of seizures "brought on by this binge drinking and then
stopping," and thinks a seizure killed her. "She should
have detoxed medically," he said.

"We really felt like we were out of the woods," Winehouse
said of his daughter, who'd been in and out of rehab for
alcohol in recent months. "When she wasn't drinking, she
was absolutely on top of the world."

A toxicology report stating the official cause of death will
be released next month. An earlier report found "no illegal
substances" in her system but there were traces of alcohol and
Librium, a prescription drug to combat anxiety and symptoms of
alcohol withdrawal. Her family alleges she had not taken drugs in three years:




Related on Shine:


Anderson Cooper wants to hear from you

My son and his addiction

Amy Winehouse's last two Fred Perry collections



Related: reg traviss, mitch winehouse, janis winehouse, anderson cooper, amy winehouse





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 121 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by chitos 11 hours 42 minutes ago

great timing for the boyfriend! don't you think ? guess he need to be excluded officially as a suspect! before he could speak! or just wanted to a get a few things off his chest (PS) you love some One? addicted to drugs! you don't "wait and choose to pick the right moment!" NEVER!!!!!!!!(every second you are with that love one; IS THE RIGHT MOMENT!  R.I.P AMY!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by dozer 11 hours 40 minutes ago

she could see a bottle of bourbon a mile away too

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Fallen Angel 11 hours 39 minutes ago

She was such a talented and gifted young woman. Her ability to sing various styles of music is but one reason for her popularity. *sigh* So tragic and so deep a loss.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Servant of Truth 11 hours 30 minutes ago

Life is so difficult that the only way that we can get through it is to injest massive amounts of alcohol and narcotics. Life without them would be unbearable. Especially if you're poor. Oh wait, she wasn't poor. She was as rich as Roosevelt! And her misery comes from.....? WHo the heck knows. Some people just destroy themselves as quickly and as indescribably as possible.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Dancer 11 hours 29 minutes ago

why are these people still talking about this women? is there no other news to cover? why don't you cover some high school student that does something good with their time! instead of covering some drunk drug addict!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by justseemypoint 11 hours 28 minutes ago

It still breaks my heart that her life ended at such a young age.  Alcohol and drug addictions are horrible diseases. It is a terrible situation to have to tip toe around an addict.  I understand Reg's comments at not wanting to nag.  I also understand the guilt Reg and Amy's family are feeling now.  I hope that they realize that they are not to blame.  The only one who could have helped Amy was Amy.  Amy, you were such a talented woman!  May you always rest in peace, and may peace come to those you have left behind.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Half Liger Half Wholphin 11 hours 27 minutes ago

Amy Winehouse was overrated.  Towards the end, her own fans booed her outlandish, buffoonish and drunken performances.  Only in death is her image being rehabilitated thanks to some concerted effort by the media.  What an irony that her image can be rehabilitated, something the real Amy Winehouse brazenly refused to do in her own life.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by uh yeah 11 hours 26 minutes ago

love you Amy!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by beau10 11 hours 26 minutes ago

I listen to her album and that voice still trips and hooks me. Sad loss.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Trinket 11 hours 26 minutes ago

You can led a horse to water but you can't make them drink.  The same with people that have addictions. You can not help them unless they are willing to help themselves.  I wish the best for the family and Amy may you RIP.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 121 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Manage Your Life Cheat_Sheet



Great misquotations: famous things they never said7 easy ways to have a great lifeIs it ever worth losing money in order to keep working?Sign up for our What's for Dinner? newsletter




Most Popular On Manage Your Life


Great misquotations: The famous things they never actually said Tue Sep 6, 2011 3:56pm PDTRyan Gosling (and other celebrities) to the rescue! Heroic stars in action. Fri Sep 9, 2011 8:32am PDT5 work rules you should break Wed Sep 7, 2011 4:59pm PDTAmy Winehouse's Loved Ones Pay Tearful Tribute on Anderson Cooper's New Talk Show13 hours agoRetail success started in dorm room Tue Sep 6, 2011 11:40am PDT


More Most Popular on Manage Your Life »

Updates Chatter on Shine…





Is Obesity a Disease?
by hateweight.com a short while  ago





Weight Loss with Auricular Therapy
by loseweightfast.com 3 minutes ago





Weight Loss Hypnosis Work
by weightlossmeter.com 7 minutes ago





The Figures of Weight Loss
by health-and-weight-loss-tips.com 10 minutes ago





Weight Loss Tips
by tipsforlosingweight.com 11 minutes ago





8 Sex Questions You’re Too Embarrassed to Ask
by Zhang 14 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


Exercises that waste your time



Are you working hard and not seeing any results? The wrong workout could be to blame. Here are the moves to skip and one that will work wonders.




Get started. »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Get your closet ready for fall
With these iPhone apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »










Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


35 Things I've Learned in my 35 Years

15 Failed Celebrity BusinessesSaving for the Small Stuff


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 5

Weigh in: "Natural hair is not a man magnet"The Scoop on Banana Republic's Mad Men Collection


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


Which running shoes are best for you?

30 Tricks to Lose One Pound a WeekAlternatives to sitting in a desk chair


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


User Post: How To Have Your Child Potty-Trained By Age 2

The Low-Down on LiceShould You Pierce Baby's Ears? Yay or Nay?


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Jennifer Lopez rebounds with Bradley Cooper, Hollywood's first choice in groove retrieval.

Is Playing Hard to Get a Turn On or Turn Off?Dear Whys Guy: "Why Does My Husband Complain So Much?"


More in Love + Sex »



Food


One-Pot Family Meal: Margarita Carmona's Chili Verde

10 Amazing Bacon DishesMeet the New Olive Oil (and the Other New Olive Oil)


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


7 New Kids' Books for Back-to-School

4 healthy, delicious ways to spice up oatmeal for kidsStrap on your baby and boogie!


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














