Half of Canadians are ready to cheat on taxes: survey - Yahoo! Canada Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Canada Finance              Search   Search Web       








What are streaming quotes?




 
			{ "market" : {"NAME" : "", "ID" : "ca", "TZ" : "", "TZOFFSET" : "-14400", "open" : "", "close" : "", "flags" : ""} ,"STREAMER_SERVER" : "http://streamerapi.finance.yahoo.com" ,"arrowAsChangeSign" : false ,"throttleInterval": "1000","localize":"0" ,"region": "CA","lang" : "en-CA","mu":"1" ,"up_arrow_icon" :"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/up_g.gif" , "down_arrow_icon":"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/down_r.gif" ,"up_color" :"green" , "down_color":"red","pass_market_id" : "0","market_status_yrb" :"YFT_MARKET_WILL_OPEN"}
		



Home
Investing
Market Stats
Canada Indices
Currencies
US Indices
World Indices
Price Gainers
Price Losers
Advances & Declines


News

Top Stories
Stock Market
International
Earnings
Commodities
Currencies
Video
Economy
All News
Technology
Bonds



My PortfoliosSign in to access My Portfolios


Perfect Cents
Saving and Budgeting
Investing
Spending
Borrowing







Search for share prices
Search for share prices

Tue Sep 13, 2011 7:36AM EDT - Canadian Markets open in 1 hr 54 mins









Half of Canadians are ready to cheat on taxes: survey







Topics:

EarningsTaxes 














John Ward, The Canadian Press, 	On Wednesday September 7, 2011, 9:25 pm EDT

By John Ward, The Canadian Press
              OTTAWA - A new poll commissioned by the taxman suggests half of Canadians are ready to cheat with under-the-table cash payments.
The survey conducted for the Canada Revenue Agency found only 49 per cent of people aren't likely to cheat.
The others were open to cutting corners, usually by paying cash for goods and services.
However, almost all are reluctant to fudge on their actual tax returns, preferring under-the-table deals to dodge taxes.
The survey didn't say how much is lost to tax cheats, but in July, Statistics Canada estimated that the underground economy in Canada was worth as much as $36 billion in 2008, a 90-per-cent increase over 1992.
At the time of the StatsCan release, the revenue agency said it used "a mix of outreach, education, and communications, as well as enforcement and audit actions to combat" the underground economy.
"The CRA plans on continuing its efforts to combat the underground economy. It continues to be a high priority, and the CRA will use the study's findings to further improve its tools and activities."
The newly released poll by Phoenix Strategic Perspectives Inc. was conducted Jan. 29-Feb. 28 this year. The survey sample of 3,884 people gives it a margin of error of plus or minus 1.9 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
The report divided respondents into six categories, according to their attitudes.
The 31 per cent called "law abiders" and 18 per cent dubbed "altruistic compliers" are low risks to fudge on taxes. The former are likely to be women, over 65, less educated and retired. The latter tend to be age 45-64, married, working full time, university-educated and with household incomes of $100,000 plus.
The other four groups, of about 12-15 per cent each, were more open to cheating.
One group rationalizes cheating. They feel the tax system is unfair. Another group doesn't think tax dodging is risky. A third think they already pay too much in taxes and look for a chance to pay cash and dodge the tax collector.
The last group, about 13 per cent of respondents, are called "outlaws." They're willing to cheat, don't think it's a big deal and tend to believe that most people feel the same way. This group tends to be male, under 30 and self-employed.
"The outlaws are the least likely to articulate traditional values and among the most likely to feel that control over their lives lies elsewhere," the study said.
The $140,000 report offered few prescriptions to remedy the situation. For example, it said focusing on penalties is most likely to be ineffective against those most likely to cheat.
It also conceded that since the survey relied on people to admit to wrongdoing, the likelihood of tax cheating may actually be higher than the results indicated.
Catherine Swift, president of the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, scoffed at the study.
"I just don't know why they waste our money in this way," she said.
"There's no surprising revelations here. There have been other studies done on underground economy activity, tax cheats or whatever you want to call it. Big deal."
Swift said there are many reasons people cheat. They see taxes as too high, they see government wasting tax money and in hard times, they may simply be trying to make ends meet.
Even the study's "outlaws" are hardly a surprise, she added.
"They're young guys who are probably a little marginal, at least at the moment, and they're not seeing taxes as a high priority in their lives. It's all common sense.
"I have no idea what the utility is of piddling away $140,000 on this study. I really don't. Big waste of money."
A spokesman for the tax agency said the poll does not predict cheating.
"The purpose of the study was to identify those most at risk of non-compliance so that the agency could focus its resources to help educate, but in no way are the report's findings an indication of future behaviour," Philippe Brideau said in an email.








 

311 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 311First PrevNextLast
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Eric T 5 minutes ago Report Abuse Perhaps if we (Canada) didn't pay some of the highest taxes (income, sales, liquor, gasoline, etc) on the planet, people wouldn't feel the need to cut corners like this.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Ernest  1 hour ago Report Abuse What a waste of money to do a study like this. People cheat, just as much as the government cheats us! I'm being tax to death... and millionaires don't even feel the punch during tax time, coz they have all the money in the world to spend on professionals to help guide them thru loop-holes, thereby cheating in a legal way.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Vladimir 5 hours ago Report Abuse Government can ruin economy and governement can make economy grows enormously,
as it happened in Russia in period of Perestroika, when small businesses just paid license fee according to type of business and possible income frame and that is it - taxes were paid. You free, you do not cheat. That simple. Country was booming. Until some point, but this would be not about economy and I stop right here. Politicians are always in charge of what happened with country. Some of them deserve to get skinny check from welfare and then welcome to make a few bucks under the table.
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment debracanice 6 hours ago Report Abuse The problem is that most of those working under the table ,can stay under the radar  
no reciepts, no proof that anyone was paid  
right now we have whole industries that exist under the table , movers, roofers, dishwahsers, and handyman , even cab drivers   and a high percentage also collect welfare or even disability  
there is system to check plus   disposible cell phones , internet ads have made to easy  
there was a story in the papers who got caught running a moving company and also living in public housing and collecting welfare , .
I dont worrry about the guy just cheating a little , its the guy who double dips and collects welfare and works  
but now since Harris made investingating welfare fraud politically incorrect , the liberal wont touch it  
I know at least eight guys and several women living with their husabnd collecting as single parents  
its easy to commit these crimes and they rarely are proscecuted even when caught
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Handy 7 hours ago Report Abuse If you Don't like it......Leave.
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment SW Test 8 hours ago Report Abuse The real message from CRA:

"Don't steal. The government hates competition!"
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment GURAQT2 8 hours ago Report Abuse It's not worth it folks ... you will get audited, get arrested and fined big time plus penalties and compound interest.   You would get less of a sentence for murdering someone, as you would receive more leniency for that than cheating on your taxes.
 



3 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
2 users disliked this comment Steve Men 9 hours ago Report Abuse and for the fun of it harper give's all our money to other countries instead of the canadian people.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment JD 10 hours ago Report Abuse What comes around goes around our HONEST STRAIGHT and NON-DECEPTIVE CANADIAN GOVERNMENT ANGLES!
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment nikornpha 10 hours ago Report Abuse I want to see a survey of "how many people think the government is a crook?". This might be one of the topic that all Canadian agree.

Comments 1 - 10 of 311First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                







Top Stories




Canadian dollar regains ground to close higher after slipping below parity - The Canadian Press


Canada's growth to slow, says RBC - CBC


Obama insists 'no games' on employment bill - The Canadian Press


Farmers vote in favour of wheat board monopoly - The Canadian Press






Brands

 
 

RIM dodges lawsuit with license agreement

- The Canadian Press




 Dolby Laboratories says Research in Motion has agreed to license its audio technologies that were the subject of two recent lawsuits against the BlackBerry maker. 

 
 

Suzuki calls for 'divorce' from VW

- AFP




 Suzuki said it wanted to end its ill-fated two-year alliance with Germany's Volkswagen following disagreements between the two on how to operate together. 

 
 

McGraw-Hill to split, spin off S&P

- AFP




 The move aims to better tap the value of the company's two key wings. 

 
  
                            Swatch to seek damages from Tiffany & Co.
                         - The Canadian Press   
                            IBM supercomputer gets post-Jeopardy job
                         - The Canadian Press   
                            Regulators probe minivan headlight failure
                         - The Canadian Press  







Perfect Cents

 
 

The secret to saving: Think first

- Entrepreneur




 Conscious spending usually means cutting out one thing to afford another. Every purchase is a trade-off, but conscious spending makes those trade-offs explicit. 

 
  
                            Budget basics for college students
                         - Investopedia   
                            Early retirement isn't for everyone
                         - US News & World Report   
                            4 things you should try living without
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Engagement rings on a budget
                         - GoldenGirlFinance.ca  

Visit Perfect Cents »


Careers

 
 

What to do when you're struggling at work

- US News & World Report




 Maybe you feel in over your head, or you've been warned that you need to improve, or you just can't seem to please your boss no matter what you do. 

 
  
                            Surefire ways to not get the job
                         - US News & World Report   
                            How to dress like an entrepreneur
                         - Entrepreneur   
                            10 signs you have a bad boss
                         - US News & World Report   
                            The cure for those who hate self-promotion
                         - Forbes  




Real Estate

 
 

The height of penthouse luxury

- Forbes




 From expansive terraces to private elevators, these sky-high, multimillion-dollar penthouses have to bee seen to be believed. 

 
  
                            New home construction slows, as predicted
                           
                            Australian mall developer eyes Toronto waterfront
                           
                            New home prices rise, Toronto-Oshawa leads way
                          




CEO Clips

 
 

 More from CEO Clips





 Executive interviews from leaders of Canadian industry. 

 





Subscribe to Topics



Top Stories 
					


 



 



Earnings



 



 



Taxes



 



 

















Yahoo! Canada Finance

Investing
Stocks News
Commodities News
Market Stats
Currency Converter
Quotes Lookup


Y! Canada Finance for mobile
Top Stories
Finance Videos
Finance News
Currency
See Your Portfolio



Also on Yahoo! Canada

Answers
Autos
Entertainment
Flickr
Games
Groups
Horoscopes


Shine
Maps
Messenger
Mail
Music
News
Personals


Sports
Travel
Weather
Yahoo! Canada Mobile
Y! Canada Home Page
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Order Annual Reports
Mortgage News
Finance on Your Phone
News - Most Popular
News
Site Map




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data, daily updates, fundAnalyst estimates data provided by Thomson Financial Network. All data povided by Thomson Financial Network is based solely upon research information provided by third party analysts. Yahoo! has not reviewed, and in no way endorses the validity of such data. Yahoo! and ThomsonFN shall not be liable for any actions taken in reliance thereon.



1184550396










