lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2008 » February






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Thursday, February 28, 2008
The Vadeboncoeur Collection of ImageS

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:33 am 
 


I’ll let you in on a little secret. 
Some of you may be under the impression from my posts on the subject that I’m an expert on the field and history of illustration, but that’s not the case. I simply know a little bit about some terrific illustrators that I’ve come across over the years. Compared to a real expert, like Jim Vadeboncoeur Jr., my knowledge is like a creek compared to a river (it might be the Brandywine Creek, but a creek nonetheless).
But that’s not the secret I wanted to let you in on. The secret is The Vadeboncoeur Collection of ImageS, at least it’s more of a secret than it should be (and no, the capital “S” is not a typo, that’s the way it’s written). 
Since 2001, Vadeboncoeur has been publishing a periodical, I hesitate to call it a magazine because it defies the conventions of most magazines, featuring beautiful images from some of history’s greatest illustrators, both well known and obscure; as well as work from artists from the same time period as the Golden Age of illustration. 
It’s a secret because, unless you frequent BPIB (formerly Bud Plant Illustrated Books), a web resource to which I have occasionally sent you in reference to the history of great illustrators, chances are you haven’t seen the modest link to the ImageS pages. 
The web site itself is a little, um… stuck in the 90′s, (when entering the site through the home page, choose “No Frames“, because frames suck), but the heart of the site is a wonderful collection short but of terrific, and often definitive, articles on great illustrators, from Edwin Austin Abbey to Newell Convers Wyeth. 
You could spend hours here lost among the articles and (unfortunately somewhat small) images from these greats, but why settle for that when you can get Vadeboncoeur’s beautifully printed collections full of stunning, high-resolution images of works that you just won’t find anywhere else. 
These collections, (again, I hesitate to call them magazines, and they’re not quite books) are printed larger than most magazines (9″x12″), are up to 44 pages each; and, in recent issues, feature amazing reproductions by way of Stochastic printing (a process that eliminates the traditional limitation of process dots and looks amazingly like a photograph).
The early issues are starting to disappear, but a number of back issues are still available, including the special Black & White ImageS Annual Collections, which showcase some of the most amazing pen and ink illustration ever produced. These are thicker than the color collections, up to 112 pages, and the fourth one was just released. Like the color collections, these are printed on 100 lb paper and the reproductions are superb. 
Unfortunately, the web site doesn’t do a very good job of presenting the collections, with a small, too-quick, GIF animations of a few pages, that you can’t even focus on for more than a second, as the only preview. 
Vadeboncoeur should take a page from Dan Zimmer’s Illustration Magazine previews, which give a thumbnail of every page in the magazine (see my posts on Illustration Magazine); or, better yet, feature two or three large images to give some idea of how beautiful these pieces really are.
In the meanwhile, lacking better previews, take my word for it. These collections are head-spinningly beautiful and a must-have for any serious fan of Golden Age illustration. 
But don’t let too many people in on our little secret, at least not until we get a chance to snap up those back issues.


Link: The Vadeboncoeur Collection of ImageS
BPIB
BPIB articles on illustrators

Posted in:  Illustration,Pen & Ink   |   5 Comments »


Wednesday, February 27, 2008
Richard Parkes Bonington

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:43 am 
 


Richard Parkes Bonington was one of the great English landscape painters at the height of the grand era of landscape painting in the 1800′s, and a notable figure in the English watercolor movement. 
He is credited with carrying the influence of both of those artistic waves to Continental Europe and inspiring many European painters to take up the practice of painting with watercolor, including Delacroix.
In his tragically short life of twenty six years, and a career as a painter that lasted only ten, he produced a notable body of work; with fresh, atmospheric paintings that bent the rules of what was acceptable in painting at the time, and helped lay the groundwork on which later sharp breaks with tradition (i.e. Impressionism) would be based.
He preferred to work outdoors, and took his compositions from modern life rather than composing “history paintings” in which the landscape was subservient to some concept of classical antiquity or religious significance. 
His paintings are notable for their sweeping skies, atmospheric haze and quick suggestions of texture in place of labored rendering. 


Link: Bonington on ARC
Web Gallery of Art
Ciudad de la pintura (ES)
Olga's Gallery
Good illustrated bio on Handprint
Bio on Outdoor Painting
Artcyclopedia (links and museum listings)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Watercolor and Gouache   |   4 Comments »


Tuesday, February 26, 2008
Mark Bischel

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:06 pm 
 


Mark Bischel is another of those illustrators whose work I’ve encountered, but about whom I know little. His web presence is minimalist to a fault, consisting of a series of (unfortunately horizontally) scrolling thumbnails and the larger images they link to; which can also be navigated (fortunately) by forward and back arrows.
His images range from dark and thickly textured monochrome charcoal drawings to brusquely textured oil paintings to graphic and somewhat monochromatic silkscreen, and what appear to be ink and watercolor paintings.
As fascinating as the slikscreens are, it’s the ink and watercolor pieces I find most appealing. They have a a loose, fresh feeling, and carry the best qualities of an on-location sketch, with free line work and lightly applied areas of color. 
A brief search for Bischel produced little additional information other than the fact that he is a graduate of the School of Visual Arts. He has also been in the Communication Arts Illustration Annuals, which is where I encountered his work.
Perhaps Bischel will update his site at some point with additional images and maybe even a little information.


Link: www.mbischel.com

Posted in:  Illustration   |   11 Comments »


Monday, February 25, 2008
American Artist’s Self-Portrait Competition

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:22 am 
 


I’ve always been fascinated by self-portraits (not that I’ve done that many myself). Here is not only the artist’s personality expressed through their work, but through their own inner or outer vision of themselves. 
Many of history’s great paintings have been self portraits, from Durer and Rembrandt to Sargent and Van Gogh, artists have made self-portraits into powerful statements with the full force of their personality and artistic skills.
One of the most intriguing things about self-portraits is the variety of approach, in terms of materials, the nature of the composition, attitude of the artist as sitter, and the background, setting and objects an artist can choose to surround themselves with.
American Artist, the venerable artists’ magazine, has opened the entry process on this year’s Self-Portrait Competition, in which the selected winners will have their self-portraits published in the magazine. The magazine’s web site has a slide-show of recent entries, about 70 of them at this point, which already constitute a colorful (in more ways then one) assortment of approaches and interpretations of the idea of self portraiture. 
In addition, they have provided an inspirational gallery of self-portraits from the history of art, including some greats like Durer’s Christ-like advertisement for his painting skills as a young artist, Chardin’s lifted-eyebrow self-appraisal of his scarfed head, three of Rembrandt’s always remarkable self-images, Sargent’s dignified banker-esque stare, Élisabeth-Louis Vigée-Lebrun’s beautiful 3/4 length portrait with palette, brushes and full-dress finery, Anders Zorn’s frank self-appraisal, several of Ergon Scheel’s stark, gaunt visages and van Gogh’s hauntingly electric, blue and green study of intensity and emotional chaos.
That said, you can submit your own portraits, haunting or otherwise, to the competition for their entry fee of $20, and $5 for additional entries. The info page has general information and the registration page has the terms and conditions. The deadline is May 1, 2008 and entry is limited to U.S. residents.
I don’t know how many pieces will be displayed in the magazine. At any rate, it should be worth checking the recent entries page occasionally just to see the the variety and range of the entries.
(Image above, left to right, Row 1: Ted Burn, Dianne Panarelli Miller, Virginia Blechman; Row 2: Daniel van Benthuysen, Peter Nuchims, David Frank; Row 3: Johanna Uribes, Jim Kilmartin, Koo Schadler; Row 4: Cesar Santos, Spencer Sharp, F. Michael Wood, Ying-He Liu. The unfortunate shadow at the top of each image is the product of the cheesy slide show application the magazine has, for reasons that are beyond me, chosen for this display.)


Link: American Artist Self-Portrait Competition
Gallery of recent entries
Inspirational gallery from the masters
Note: These links may change when the competition ends and a new competition is in place.

Posted in:  Drawing,Painting   |   4 Comments »


Sunday, February 24, 2008
Une Semaine de Bonté at the Albertina

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:19 pm 
 


In 1934, Surrealist Max Ernst created an extraordinary collage novel (or, as I pointed out a few years ago, “graphic novel”), composed of collage images constructed of cut-outs from popular French periodicals and catalogs of the time. 
The result is a fascinating, spooky, wondrous and eye-opening excursion into the mind of a Surrealist master on the cusp of World War II. Here is my post about Une Semaine de Bonté, ou Les Sept Éléments Capitaux (A Week of Kindness, or the Seven Deadly Sins) from 2005.
This month, the Albertina museum in Vienna is displaying some of Ernst’s original collages for the book (how many is unclear). This is the first time the works have been exhibited since 1936. The show runs until the 9th of April, 2008. The museum’s site has a 6 thumbnails posted of images in the exhibition, though, inexplicably, no larger versions. I’ve found corresponding images in my files and posted them above.
Though I consider it legitimately a “graphic novel” (and long-time lines and colors readers will know I’m cranky about the inaccurate use of that term), it is not arranged in comic-strip form, as my composite above might suggest. Each of these images is a full page, but they are part of a narrative sequence (the images above are out of sequence from various parts of the book). The narrative is loose and dreamlike, or “stream of consciousness”, if you will. This is actually in keeping with the Surrealists’ prose and poetry, and could more correctly be called “stream of unconsciousness”, as one of their professed aims was to create art directly from their unconscious minds.
For those of us for whom a trip to Vienna is not practical, good old Dover Books is still keeping their delightfully inexpensive version, Une Semaine De Bonte: A Surrealistic Novel in Collage, in print after all these years (as well they should, it’s a classic, despite their slightly off title). I’ve had my dog-eared copy since I was a teenager, and the work still manages to surprise and delight me with repeated viewings.
When I wrote my previous post, there was an online version of the entire book available that has since disappeared. But, as the Internet giveth and the Internet taketh away, there is now a version on Google Books that looks reasonably complete. 
You will also find some images, often with larger versions, on Giornale Nuovo and La Boîte à Images.
If you are at all intrigued, though, opt for the print version.


Link: Une Semaine de Boneé at the Albertina
Une Semaine de Bonté on Google Books
Une Semaine De Bonte: A Surrealistic Novel in Collage from Dover Books (Amazon link)
Images on Giornale Nuovo
Images on La Boîte à Images
My previous post on A Week of Kindness

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, February 23, 2008
Robin Chyo

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:32 am 
 


We catch concept artist Robin Chyo at the very beginning of his career. A graduate of Academy of Art University with a BFA in Illustration, Chyo is working to build a career in the gaming and/or film industry as a concept designer and illustrator.
He has begun by establishing a presence in publications like the Spectrum collections of fantastic art (Spectrum 13 and 14, which is where I encountered his work), Ballistic Publishing’s Painter digital art showcase and D’artiste: Concept Art collection, as well as ImagineFX and 2DArtist Magazine.
He has also created a reasonably extensive portfolio, showcasing his abilities in the major areas of concept design for gaming and special effects centric movies, such as characters, environments, props, creatures and mechanical devices.
He has also, wisely, created a web site to make his portfolio readily available. Though it isn’t fancy (probably also a wise decision), he’s done a good job of providing the essentials — bio, resume, contact information and galleries of work that can be viewed by either thumbnails or Previous and Next navigation. He has also added a subtle id mark of his web site address to his images without marring them with ugly watermarks (are you listening, all of you watermarking fanatics?). (I should point out, though, that the “http://” in URL on the image is unnecessary.)
The baseline, of course, is that all of this is in support of very nice work. Chyo’s concept designs show a youthful verve and freedom of imagination that is sometimes more subdued in older veterans in the field. His creatures, in particular, seem more truly alien and less clichéd than most.  His mechanical devices, props and character accouterments often have an interestingly organic feeling. 
There is a certain brusqueness to his rendering that I find appealing, with an emphasis on textures and a muted palette with highlights of more intense hues. 
Chyo lists a number of 2-D and 3-D digital graphics applications in his resume, along with traditional media like pencil, oils and acrylics. It looks like the majority of work in his portfolio is relatively straightforward digital painting in Painter and Photoshop.
All in all, it looks like he’s doing a lot of things right, and it’s probably only a matter of time before we see credits for gaming or film projects on his resume. I just hope that working within industry standards doesn’t take away his imaginative wild streak.


Link: www.robin-chyo.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   2 Comments »


Friday, February 22, 2008
79 years of Best Picture Winners in Posters

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:53 am 
 


Some of us are waiting with bated breath for the Academy Awards (and some of us are waiting for them to be over so we can get back to more important things, like new episodes of The Daily Show), but it’s a time of year when movies become a topic of discussion. 
Movie Poster Addict, a blog with the nice subtitle “Because we all like pretty pictures”, has posted  79 years of Best Picture Winners in Posters, featuring a series of the posters that accompanied the past Academy Award winners for Best Picture from 1927 up to last year. 
These aren’t the best movie posters ever (by any means), simply the ones associated with the Best Picture winners, but some of them are pretty good, and it’s fascinating to see the mish-mash of quality between the posters and the movies; some of each are classic, and some of each are eminently forgettable.
If you click on most of the images in the blog post you’ll get an larger version. The links underneath lead to the source for the poster image which sometimes includes an even larger version and some information about the movie. 
Unfortunately, many of them don’t include credits for the poster artist or designer, though some do. Some of them are the work of well known illustrators, like Bob Peak’s poster for My Fair Lady, John Van Hamersveld’s Amadeus poster and Richard Amsel doing his best to emulate J.C. Leyendecker in his poster for The Sting.
Credits for some of the older illustrations are apparently lost in the mists of time, or at least out of the reach of a quick Google. 
For some more interesting posters, see Movie Poster Addict’s post on the 2007 Key Art Awards, which actually are awards for artwork associated with movie promotional materials.
[Link via Neatorama]


Link: 79 years of Best Picture Winners in Posters
2007 Key Art Awards on Movie Poster Addict

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, February 21, 2008
ArtDemonstrations.com

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:56 am 
 


ArtDemonstrations.com is a blog in which the author has collected and shares links to  various art demonstrations and tutorials he has come across on the web.
Some of them are more useful than others and they take several forms, from a few steps in a painting process shown as photos, to longer step-by step breakdowns, to time-lapse videos of the creation of drawings or paintings (like the portrait drawing by Barrett Bailey shown above), to full half hour or more videos of painting demonstrations. 
At first I thought that the blog might be from someone associated with SmartFlix, an instructional video rental service that features a number of art instruction DVDs, because of the ubiquitous banner. There is also a list of text links under his Google ads that look like a blogroll, but are actually links (presumably paid links) to items in the SmartFlix store. These are videos that might be of interest, but the listings feature no actual online demos or articles.
Apparently, though, SmartFlix is just a sponsor the author encountered after doing a short post on them. (They’ve contacted me as well, but I haven’t had a chance to check into the service yet. I’ll try to rent a video or two and give you a report in the near future.)
Some of the ArtDemonstrations.com posts are links to short promos for artists’ commercial video releases, including short excerpts from a new instructional painting video, The Portrait Sketch, by Jeremy Lipking, as well as other video clips of him. 
In addition to Jeremy Lipking, the blog points to demos by other artists that I’ve mentioned on lines and colors, including Tony Ryder, Duane Keiser, and a couple by William Whitaker (from the blog’s listings for November, 2005)
Other posts mention books and web archives of books, as well as tidbits like old film of Picasso at work and a PDF of an article on Sargent’s painting methods (PDF link 28k) posted by Craig Mullins. 
In addition to Mullins there are a few mentions of concept artists, though that’s one of the largest areas of available tutorials on the web, particularly in the portals like CG Society and ConceptArt.org. Still, most people with a particular interest in concept art are aware of those sources and I think ArtDemonstrations.com is better aimed at the broader art community.
Unfortunately, the author, who I can find referenced only as “Jeff” (and is apparently an artist himself and has contributed one or two of his own demos), doesn’t seem to post often; and has not yet included a number of readily available painting demos I’ve come across on YouTube and other places. 
The idea of trying to collect a central reference for available art tutorials on the web is a terrific one, and I would love to see it pursued more aggressively; but instead of complaining, I should be thanking Jeff for sharing what he has.


Link: http://www.artdemonstrations.com/

Posted in:  Drawing,Painting,Tools and Techniques   |   6 Comments »


Wednesday, February 20, 2008
John Beder

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:23 am 
 


Had I come across John Beder’s children’s book illustrations on their own, rather than finding them on his web site after seeing the realist still life paintings on his painting blog, I would not have thought them to be the work of the same artist. 
His illustrations for children’s books are loose, almost roughly realized, and at times cartoonlike. His still life paintings, on the other hand are precise, detailed and contemplative. Both sides of his work show a fondness for bright colors.
His still life paintings are most often of arrangements of fruit. Though his subject matter and blog format shares some similarity with the blogs of many “painting a day” artists, it’s obvious at first glance that these paintings are the work of much longer painting sessions. 
They are often wonderful explorations of the way light cascades across and wraps itself around the forms of the fruit, sometimes lighting them as if with an inner glow. The forms of individual grapes or the surfaces of plums are revealed with dedicated attention to the appearance of their textural and light reflective qualities.
In a number of paintings, Beder challenges himself with the rendering of the play of shadow and light across the complex folds of striped cloth, arranged as a backdrop to the still life, in what must be an very painstaking process.
As you might expect, Beder doesn’t post new paintings often. My one real disappointment, though, is that he doesn’t post larger versions of them. The “detail versions”, such as they are, are hardly larger than the images on the blog page; leaving you to imagine as best you can what the paintings might look like in person, as they are reasonably large, in the range of 30″x 20″ (75x50cm). 
You can also find some of his paintings on his (somewhat awkwardly arranged) web site, which is devoted largely to his illustrations and his “Feeling Faces” line of emotion flash cards.


Link: http://johnbeder.blogspot.com/
More paintings
Illustration

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, February 19, 2008
Kevin Turcotte

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:01 am 
 


Kevin Turcotte is another of those artists who has a somewhat vague web presence. I  don’t think he has a site of his own, but he posts his small paintings as a participant in the group blog, Paintopolis. 
He shares Paintopolis with James Martin, Jeremy Engleman and Marty Havran. There is little direct information about any of them on the blog, but I’m guessing that they all work for Disney animation in some capacity, as the one other bit of information I’ve been able to come up with on Turcotte is his IMDB listing; which credits him as background artist or background supervisor on films like Sinbad: Legend of the Seven seas, Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron, The Road to Eldorado, The Prince of Egypt, Pocahontas, The Lion King and Aladdin.
You’re left with the impression that the blog exists basically for the benefit of the artists themselves and/or their friends, because, except for the artist’s names and a few short notes about the posted images, no background information is provided.
Turcotte seems to be the most prolific contributor, frequently posting small landscapes that he describes as “lunchtime paintings”, quickly realized and fresh with the painterly immediacy that the limited timeframe implies. These are done primarily in oil and occasionally in watercolor. Likewise he often posts both oil and watercolor figure paintings, from appearances done in a classroom or workshop setting. These are also wonderfully painterly and quickly but surely rendered. 
There are also quick studies of flowers and still life subjects as well as a few more fully realized paintings. 
In browsing through the blog, which unfortunately is one of those Blogger affairs that doesn’t have an “earlier posts” link and requires you to fidget through the archives links to see past the first page, you’ll also encounter the work of his fellow Paintoplois bloggers, whose “off-hours” work is also worth attention, even if they don’t think it’s worth any explanation, bios, or other background information. 


Link: http://paintopolis.blogspot.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting   |   6 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






