 AutoModia


Twitter
Facebook
RSS Feed


Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to secondary content
Skip to footer





AutoModia


Automotive. Media. Houston.


HomeAboutAutomotive NewsProductsSponsors

 


Emilio’s Beautiful Subaru Pays Tribute to 9/11!

Posted on September 11, 2011 by syntheticgt


I was sitting in a marketing class on the morning of September 11, 2001.  Taking notes and trying to stay awake were the only two tasks that I even cared about that morning.  The professor was standing there giving his lecture when my phone started vibrating.  I looked down real quick to see that it was my Mom.  She knew that I was in class so I didn’t understand why she was calling, so, I just ignored it (lol).  About a minute later my phone started vibrating again.  Again, it was my Mom so I just ignored it.  Another minute went by and my phone started vibrating again.  In my family we have a rule.  If the someone tries to call you three times in a row then something is wrong.  Knowing this, I excused myself from the class and stepped outside to answer my phone.  The only thing I heard my Mom say was “Turn on the TV, someone is attacking us!”  My mind quickly ran through about a million possible ways someone could be attacking us.  None of the ways I imagined came close to what I was about to see.  I hung up the phone, grabbed my bag, and made my way into the school library.  I told the lady there that we need to turn the TV on, something was happening.  We turned the TV on to see that the North tower of the World Trade Center was on fire.  The news said a plane had hit the tower.  What we experienced next was something that we only saw in the movies.  A passenger jet hit the South tower of the World Trade Center.  The entire room went silent.  Something went very wrong and someone was attacking us.  We were shocked and like many Americans were glued to the TV for the next hour watching the rest of the events for that day.  After the Pentagon was hit and a plane crashed in Pennsylvania the school shut down our building and sent everyone home.  I had to get to work a few hours later.

In remembrance of the events on September 11th I wanted to do something special for the readers of the website.  This is how I met Emilio of Element 343.  He brought out his 2008 Subaru WRX that is dedicated to fallen firefighters of 9/11 for us to shoot.  Emilio’s Subaru is a rolling Memorial that is dedicated to the 343 fallen firefighters and EMTs.  You will find all 343 names listed in Alphabetical order on the roof of the car and a custom painted Seibon carbon fiber hood that keeps with the fallen firefighter theme.  The custom “Fight Terrorism” license plates and a Seibon carbon fiber STi spoiler round out the exterior of this beautiful Subaru.

The car itself is no slouch when it comes to the “go” department.    A Precision Turbo PT6765 twin-scroll turbo feeds the engine through a Perrin front mount intercooler.  The turbo is mounted to a Full Race twinscroll manifold and twin 38mm Tial MVS Wastegates.  The pressure from the turbo is let out via a HKS SSQVIII blow-off valve.  The motor itself has a Brian Crower 2.7L stroker kit with BC625+ I-Beam rods and Golden Eagle sleeves.  This is topped off by a set of ported and polished heads, Supertech +1mm intake valves, Supertech Inconel exhaust valves, and Brian Crower stage 3 cams.  ARP head bolts make sure that this motor stays together under all that stress.  2150cc Injector Clinic injectors and a Walbro 255lph fuel pump make sure that enough fuel is supplied to keep this motor from detonating itself.  Getting the exhaust gasses out of the car is a custom 4″ stainless steel exhaust made by SSA.  A Carbonetics 3-Plate carbon clutch kit makes sure that the power gets to the wheels with no slip.  This Subaru can dance with the best of them thanks to Secret Services Auto.

Getting the power to the pavement is a set of 18″ Prodrive GC-05F wheels and BF Goodrich G-Force T/A KDW NT tires.  This is all suspended by a set of Cobb Tuning sport springs.

Keeping the driver informed of everything that is happening with the motor is a set of Defi-Link Advance Gauges.

Emilio came to modding cars in a way that he almost didn’t divulge to us.  He wanted to start tuning cars after watching The Fast the Furious in June 2001.  Since he was already good with his hands he wanted to try his luck building cars.  Emilio has owned four cars and they were all modified in some way or fashion.  When I pressed him to tell me what they were he just told me they were “classified.”  It’s OK Emilio, we’ve all gone through a ricer phase (lol).  The Subaru has been in his possession now for 65,000 miles and the All-Wheel Drive system is what he enjoys the most about it.  The only thing he would do differently at this point would be NOT hitting a deer with it.  I think we can all agree to that right?

Emilio is an Instrument and Controls technician for NRG Energy.  He also runs his Non-Profit company Element 343 in his spare time.  I see him posting about various charitable activities on the Element 343 Facebook page all of the time.  Whether they are donating money or hard work doesn’t matter.  Element 343 is always willing to go that extra mile to help those that need it.  When he isn’t at work or volunteering his time you can find Emilio hanging out with friends and family, eating BBQ, and working on cars.

I want to thank Emilio for coming out to the Houston Fire Museum so we could take some photos and get to know him and his family.  We had a great time hanging out and we are looking forward to seeing more from Emilio and Element 343 in the future.




-AM
 

2 Comments
		Posted in Spotlight and tagged 9/11, EL343, STi, subaru, Tribute, WRX. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Texas Wildfire Donations for Columbus VFD!

Posted on September 6, 2011 by syntheticgt


Photo by Deanna Roy (deannaroy.com)
I wanted to share a picture with you guys before I explained what we were doing here.  That is a shot across the Austin skyline looking at the area affected by one of many Texas wildfires.  My jaw hit my desk when I saw this.  We always hear about these things in other parts of the country so it never really sinks in.  Well this is as real as it gets.
I am asking that anyone please send a donation via Paypal to automodia@gmail.com and please put ”Fire Donation” in the comments box.  We will be donating directly to the Columbus, TX Volunteer Fire Department.  AutoModia’s own Erik Christensen has family in Columbus and hears about the loss and devastation everyday.  So we are going to do our part and donate as much as we can.  Fire departments around the start are quickly burning through their budgets fighting these fires so please donate what you can.
www.paypal.com
Donate to automodia@gmail.com
Please put “Fire Donations” in the comments box.
Thank you so much.
-AM
 
 

Leave a comment
		Posted in The Rambler and tagged Columbus VFD, Donations, Texas Wildfires. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Asad’s Cressida Got a New Heart!

Posted on September 4, 2011 by syntheticgt


When was the last time you saw a wolf in sheep’s clothing?  Did you have any idea that you were even looking at a wolf?  Sometimes their disguises are so good that they just blend in with the rest of the sheep.  Looking at Asad’s 1989 Toyota Cressida one would never suspect that anything is hiding underneath all that grocery getter styled sheet metal.  The only part of the exterior that offers a hint to anything dubious are the 17″ Enkei RS-Evolution wheels draped in Hankook Ventus V12 Evo tires.  If you look close enough you might even notice that the car is lowered on Megan Racing Street Coilovers and Volvo 740 front lip.  Did you notice the CXRacing front mount intercooler?  No way, that’s just a shiny radiator, right?  RIGHT!?

Once the hood was popped I couldn’t help but quote Jesse from The Fast and The Furious with his famous line “2JZ no shit!”  I think I may have said this in my head a few times while I was shooting this Cressida (lol).  You can source this motor in cars like the twin turbo Toyota Supra if you don’t know it’s origins.  The JDM Aristo 2JZ-GTE TT is mated to an automatic transmission for that little bit of extra stealth.  Looking around the rest of the interior you will notice the Blitz Dual Turbo Timer with Boost Gauge and that’s about it.

Being a true car enthusiast there was no way Asad could put a stock motor into the Cressida.  Modification began with the Blitz SuperSound Dual Drive BOV, Greddy Boost Cut Controller, and Drift Motion Intake.  Drift Motion also supplied the SS Power Steering line and aluminum JZ Pulley Kit.  Xcessive Manufacturing provided the motor mount base plates and adapter brackets that make this swap possible.  Asad then installed the aforementioned intercooler with CXRacing 2.5″ piping.  Magnaflow got the call to help move the exhaust gasses via a set of their race mufflers and custom 3″ exhaust piping.  The next problem that needed to be dealt with was mating the drive shaft to the rear end.  Houston Drive Train provided a custom one piece drive shaft to make this work.  A MKIII Supra LSD was added along with Beech Performance solid aluminum rear differential bushings to help keep both rear tires in tune.  Is that enough wolf for you?

Asad began collecting, building, and playing with model cars when he was about 8 years old.  His Father used to stop by the Ferrari dealership before they went to prayer when he was 12.  This inspired him to learn about cars and eventually got him wanting to own a car to work on.  9 cars have been a part of Asad’s life to this point.  A 1993 Honda Accord, a 1994 Acura Integra LS, a 2003 Honda Civic, a 1992 Acura Integra LS, a 2003 Sentra SE-R Spec-V, a 2001 Lexus ES300, and a 1999 Honda Civic coupe all make the “used to own” list.  Each of these cars was modded in different ways.  His current stable consists of the Cressida and a 2002 Lexus IS300 that have both seen their fair share of mods as well.  The thing that Asad enjoys the most about his Cressida is the sound and its attention grabbing ability for being such a unique set up.

You can find Asad working at Apple when he isn’t out working on one of his cars.  You may also find him daydreaming about one of his many dream cars which include a McLaren F1, a Ferrari F-40, a Nissan GTR, a BMW M5, and an Acura NSX.  Much to my dismay and/or delight (however you look at these things…lol) he did tell me he was working on picking up that NSX in his dream list.  Asad also enjoys long walks on the beach, candlelight dinners, and a good movie.  Was I supposed to say that?  Seriously, you can usually find him watching movies, working on cars, eating and smoking hookah with friends.

I want to thank Asad for bringing this beauty out of hiding.  I love cars from the late 1980′s so this combination of car and motor has made my list of favorites.  I had a great time and I am looking forward to Asad’s next project.







-AM
 

Leave a comment
		Posted in Spotlight and tagged 2JZ, Cressida, Drift, toyota, Turbo. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Houston Coffee and Cars September 2011: Shiny Cars!

Posted on September 3, 2011 by syntheticgt


Does anyone here know what’s cooler than cool?  Ice cold?  NO!  It was the fully polished and chrome Cobra that showed up to today’s Coffee and Cars at Vintage Park.  To this day I have only read about cars like that on the internet and had never seen one in person.  I was impressed to say the least.  I’m going to try to do that to my xB (lol).



We got to Vintage Park earlier than normal for this month’s event so that we could give the folks at Starbucks a little face time.  These guys get slammed every time we come out here and somehow they all manage to keep smiles on their faces.  As I am walking around taking pictures I always hear how the line for Starbucks is out the door.  Personally I would not want to be inside making coffee for a thousand people.  So I want to extend a HUGE thanks to everyone working tirelessly inside to help keep my fellow enthusiasts awake with a good caffeine jolt!  It simply wouldn’t be COFFEE and Cars without you.



We definitely had a great time and look forward to coming back next month.  Until then I will leave you with some pictures!














Please visit our Facebook page and click “like” at http://www.facebook.com/pages/AutoModia/216218551725772
Thanks
-AM
 

1 Comment
		Posted in Local Events and tagged camaro, Coffee and Cars, Hot Rod, Houston, Muscle Cars, mustang, Racecar. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Get a Little Crazy, Get a Little Stoopid!

Posted on August 28, 2011 by syntheticgt


Back in the day, when I was just getting into cars, I have to admit to everyone that I was not so open-minded.  If your ride wasn’t a rear-wheel drive muscle car with a V8 under the hood then it garnered little respect from me.  I would venture to say that the only reason I remotely liked compact cars was due to how cheap they were and how good they were on gas.  That was it.  What was I driving at the time?  A 1989 Ford Mustang 2.3L 5-speed.  Please, save your laughter.  The only 4-banger that I had any respect for was the old Mustang SVO and that was solely because I am a die-hard Mustang fan.  As the years progressed so did technology.  One day, while I was still rocking Windows 95, I came across a video online.  I think everyone knows this video because it has been referred to right here on AutoModia before.  Some ricer in a black Honda Civic hatchback had just beat a Dodge Viper in a street race.  I was floored and intrigued all at the same time.  My search then began for the nut that built that car.  Thus began my own foray into the import world and I was introduced to man we all know as Stoopid.

Fact:  Stoopid has a first and last name.  Did you know that?  His name is Jason Herrera.  Jason and I had met a few times over the last few years as he used to buy parts from the guys at the Honda store I worked at.  He was always building or tuning (t00ning) something awesome.  Have you seen the name St00pidfast or St00pid on the side of someone’s car in the past?  Chances are that it was tuned or worked on by Jason.

The man himself has been around cars and motorsports all his life.  His Dad used to drag race and he had a few friends that were into off-road trucking.  Jason built his first turbocharged Honda for a friend that had a FMU for fueling.  After a few detonated motors he decided it was time to search for a way to keep the fuel and timing under control so this wouldn’t happen again.  He picked up an old Accel DFI box and began his research into fuel injection tuning.  Once this was buttoned up and Jason had a better understanding of what was needed to keep these motors alive he was off to his first time on the dyno.  The rest, as they say, is history.

In the tuning world Jason said that his biggest challenge was trying to educate people about what their car will need.  Coming in at a close second was trying to build what his customer needs within their budget.  The other side of facing these challenges was that he enjoyed the process and always looked at it as an adventure.  Jason found the that the most exciting projects were the ones he hadn’t done before.  The ones that made him wonder if all the parts he had chosen to put together would actually work and then seeing the customers reaction after their first test drive.

After all is said and done there was never really any spare time while Jason was tuning cars.  Now he plays with motorcycles and likes to listen to music.  Since he has had the opportunity to drive just about everything out there I asked him if he could have one car to drive everyday, what would it be?  “I would say my top choices would be the NSX, GTR, or a 1966 Chevy II,” he said.  Great choices all around.
Here is Jason guarding my dinky little camera bag in the 100 degree heat lol.
I did have to ask him what his favorite build was and that is how all of these pictures of Princeton Wong’s ridiculous Porsche 993 got here.  Jason has tuned Vipers, Mustangs, Civics, and even got 2000hp out of Seth Johnson’s XTF Mustang with a 454cid small block Ford and twin GT4788′s.  However, Princeton’s 993 stands out as his favorite.  When Jason told me that he still had the car in his possession I knew that we had to get a few pictures of it to showcase his work.  There were very few compromises made on this car as the fabrication work was done.  Princeton’s and Jason’s attention to detail here is insane.  Both of these guys had a hand in fabricating this car.  Jason taught Princeton how to weld and taught him the fundamentals of turbocharging among many other things and this head turning Porsche is the product of that relationship.

I want to thank Jason for bringing the Porsche out for everyone to drool on.  Erik and I had a great time getting photos of the car.  I was so excited that I would get to try my hand at rolling shots for the first time that I forgot to get a picture of Jason holding the AutoModia license plate.  So I will just steal his most flattering pictures from his Facebook page so you guys can put a face to the name.



pffft...n000bs!!




He may harm me for using this one...lol.
-AM
 

1 Comment
		Posted in Faces of Our Community and tagged cars, Civic, Fastlane, Honda, Stoopid, Stoopidfast, Tooned, Tuning. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Blast to the Past After Hours!

Posted on August 28, 2011 by syntheticgt


What a fantastic meet!  We were completely unprepared for what we saw when we turned the corner to head to Blast to the Past After Hours.  I figured we had some time to stop and get a bite to eat so we wouldn’t be struggling through hunger while taking pictures.  I was very wrong, and I don’t say that very often.  Once that corner was turned we saw a sea of imports and domestics all bathed in light.  Both Erik and I knew that we had to get to work sans food and that is exactly what we did.

Sean with West Houston Muscle did a fantastic job of putting this meet together and getting some advertising out there.  This meet even made the evening news here in Houston.  None of this would have been remotely possible without Sean, his crew of volunteers, and Caliber Collision for letting them use their parking lot.  It was well-organized, well planned, and everyone seemed to have a great time.  I can’t wait to go to the next big meet Sean puts together!

Now for the pics!










Please check out the AutoModia Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/#!/pages/AutoModia/216218551725772 for more event pictures.  Please click “like” while you are there.
-AM
 

Leave a comment
		Posted in Local Events and tagged Awesome, Blast to the Past, camaro, car meet, Chevrolet, ford, Honda, Muscle Cars, mustang, nissan. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
The Beginning of Something New!

Posted on August 25, 2011 by syntheticgt


How far back do you remember when it comes to our local meets?  Chewy Balls?  TeaWorks?  Oscar’s Creamery?  UofH Meet?  Webster/Bay Area Blvd Meet?  Miami Subs?  How far back do you remember when it comes to local car shows?  HIN?  Jspek?  Formula D?  Import Expo?  Import Revolution?  A period in time existed when Houston’s meet and show schedule was full and there was plenty for all car enthusiasts to do over the course of a week.  Sometimes two or three big events would happen in the same weekend.  Some folks would scramble from meet to meet or from show to show just so they could have a good time and share their love of cars with others.  I personally remember the long nights cruising around the Houston area trying to get a taste of everything that was going on at the time.  Never a dull moment.  Never a slow weekend.
These days are gone.
We are losing so much of what brings us all together and makes our community great.  I don’t want anyone to think that it’s just the import enthusiasts either.  This loss is being felt across the board for enthusiasts of all makes and models.  Shows are disappearing from our doorstep.  Meets are being broken up and cancelled for good.  New ideas and venues fail before they even have a chance to prosper.  Our community is lacking the proper organization that is so desperately needed to keep this community thriving.
Now, with all that on the table there is something I want everyone to know about me.  I will rarely bring a problem to light without a few ideas on how to remedy the issue.  It’s not in my nature.  So, AutoModia will be teaming up with the folks over at Planet Zero to bring something very special to our community.  This event will take place towards the end of the year and the few details we have so far are very exciting.  Once all the pieces are set we will be making an official announcement right here on AutoModia!!
Stay tuned!!!
-AM
 

Leave a comment
		Posted in The Rambler and tagged automodia, cars, Girls, Meet, planet zero. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Chris’ RSX Turns Heads and Breaks Ear Drums!

Posted on August 21, 2011 by syntheticgt


Have you ever been to a concert and had the misfortune of standing right next to a 6ft. tall speaker?  I was stuck next to the speaker at a Sugar Ray concert a long time ago so I know exactly what that is like.  Running around with Chris and his RSX felt like the same experience.  This beautiful RSX was fairly quiet while it idled, but, press down on the fun pedal and the volume hits max real quick.  What?  Oh, I thought you said something, sorry (lol).

The top end of the motor in Chris’ RSX consists of a Jackson Racing Supercharger running at 11psi.  This is fed by a Mugen intake and controlled by a Hondata K-Pro.  RC Engineering 650cc fuel injectors and a Walbro 255lph fuel pump supply the motor with the extra fuel to compensate for all that beautiful compressed air.  Chris found a way to quickly and efficiently expel the exhaust through a Buddy Club race header and matching Buddy Club Spec 2 exhaust.  A Competition Clutch Stage 4 clutch and lightweight flywheel were installed to help put the power to the ground.  Keep poking around under the hood and you will find a plethora of aftermarket parts and accessories to make all the go fast parts work in harmony and keep things looking pretty.

Once the hood gets closed and you begin giving the rest of the car a “once over” you will quickly notice that it all follows right along.  Mugen was the company of choice when it came to the front bumper, side skirts, canards, hood, and rear spoiler.  M&M (no not the candy company) provided Chris with the carbon fiber rear diffuser.  Lighting comes via Integra Type-R headlights and a 6000K HID kit.  This RSX is no slouch at holding the road day or night.

Keeping the car attached to the ground was Chris’ next focus.  A set of Yokahama S-Drive tires were installed over 17×9 Volk CE28N wheels.  This is kept in check by Tein HA Coilovers, Function 7 lower control arms, Mugen strut bars, a Progress rear sway bar, and a Today 25mm front sway bar.  Chris installed a Wilwood Dynalite big brake kit to compliment the car’s speed and turning capabilities.  What’s the point of going fast if you can’t stop right?

The interior of this RSX holds a myriad of Mugen and Type-R accessories.  Mugen S1R bucket seats and those beautiful green Takata harnesses jump right out at you as if they are inviting you to come and take a ride.  Couple those with the T1R titanium shift knob, B&M short shifter, AEM gauges, and Type-R pedals to make for one well-rounded and versatile interior.  It doesn’t matter if you want to hit the twisties in the Texas hill country or just hit the local Starbucks, this RSX is ready for anything.

A few years ago Chris was faced with a choice.  He used to play paintball all of the time and was very competitive and good.  The big decision came when he figured out that he needed to move on from paintball and find a hobby that was a little more stable.  The progression to the automotive culture was almost natural as Chris really enjoys his cars.

Chris has had a few modified cars that include a 1995 Mazda 626, a 2000 Ford Ranger, and a 2004 Mazda RX8.  The RX8 was his first real shot at modifying cars.  It had all of the usual bolt-ons and suspension goodies.  The one thing he loves the most about his current RSX is just driving it.  He bought the car in 2004 with 30,000 miles on the odometer and has added 50,000 more miles to that.  Although if he had his druthers he would be rolling around in a Skyline GT-R V-Spec II Nur.

When Chris isn’t turning wrenches on his RSX you can usually find him at work as a geoscience technician or hanging out with his friends and family.  Looking into the near future Chris will be changing up his RSX a little bit and the only thing he would tell me was “J’s Racing.”  Ok, I’m hooked (lol).  Big thanks to Chris for coming to hang out with me for a couple of hours in this ridiculous heat.  I had a blast shooting this car as it has always held a special place in my heart…and my eardrums.





-AM
 

3 Comments
		Posted in Spotlight and tagged acura, Chris Young, Integra, Mugen, RSX, Supercharger. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
Access Zero 63: Back to School!

Posted on August 21, 2011 by syntheticgt


Next week marks the beginning of the school year for quite a few people around the city.  College kids are getting settled in their dorms and the regular grade school kids will be hitting the bus stops on Monday morning.  Chairs are pushed in and desks have been wiped somewhat clean of last years gum.  It’s only a matter of hours now until the educators in our great city get back to doing what they do best, educating.  This weekend marked the end of a great summer and the start of another great school year.

The girl of the meet for August was the beautiful Kendra Messer.  You may recognize her as she has been featured right here on AutoModia.  In lieu of the usual run down about who she is and what she does I have decided to tell everyone about a little event that Kendra is holding.  That nice pink Nissan 240sx was taken apart for a makeover a few weeks after the shoot was finished.  By the time it was posted here the car was already in pieces.  On September 16th, 2011 at 9pm Kendra will be holding an unveiling of her car at NonStop Tuning.  She welcomes all car enthusiasts to come and be part of the unveiling.  It just so happens to be her birthday weekend at the same time so I am certain she wouldn’t mind a gift or two.  You can check her out on her Facebook fan page at http://www.facebook.com/KendraAnnMesser .


Now, on to the pictures!!












For the rest of the pictures please check out the AutoModia Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/#!/pages/AutoModia/216218551725772 .  Please share it with your friends and ask them to like it.
-AM
 

Leave a comment
		Posted in Local Events and tagged access zero, dancing, Girls, Honda, Kendra Messer, nissan, planet zero, toyota. Bookmark the permalink.	
 
On This Day:  The K-Mart Raid!

Posted on August 18, 2011 by syntheticgt


Say the name Mark Aguirre to one of the older import enthusiasts at a meet and see what kind of reaction you get.  Some laugh, some cringe, most have stories, and those that made it to jail that night probably aren’t too fond of Officer Aguirre.

August 18th, 2002 is a day that will be emblazoned in the mind of many people across our great city.  In our local automotive community we know this fondly as “The K-Mart Raid.”  Aguirre set in place a sting called Operation ERACER (Eliminate and Remove Autos Causing Environmental Ravagement).  These guys were “supposed” to be out looking for street racers.  Instead, HPD closed the exits down to the now torn-down K-Mart and arrested 273 people.  They arrested everyone and it didn’t matter what excuse you had.  You had a receipt for your food and drink at Sonic?  Arrested!  You gathered with your friends and there is no proof what-so-ever that you were street racing?  Arrested!  You’re a 9-year-old kid hanging out with your family that evening?  Arrested!  This folly of police work that your tax dollars pay for was just a joke.  To top all of this off, FORMER Captain Mark Aguirre decided he would try to change lanes “Fast and Furious” style in his personal car a few weeks later.  A fitting end to someone who showed no respect for the law and due process.

I had just left that parking lot a little before that all went down.  We usually had a much smaller meet in the parking lot at Starbucks in the Carrilion shopping center so we could watch all the idiots run up and down Westheimer.  The only thing we noticed was a severe lack of modded cars.  I didn’t learn about the raid until the next day.  Where were you when it all went down?
-AM
 

5 Comments
		Posted in On This Day and tagged arrests, cops, Houston, hpd, Imports, kmart, raid, sonic. Bookmark the permalink.	


← Older Posts
 →




Categories 
Faces of Our Community (3)

Jose Jiminez Jr. (1)

Local Events (18)

On This Day (3)

Out of Town Spotlight (1)

Shoplight (7)

Spotlight (11)

Taylor Blackwell (1)

The Rambler (6)


AM Tweets
Share this page with your friends and ask them to click like!  <3 http://t.co/HBm45gW 18 hours ago
This is how car guys remember! http://t.co/PkO1sKz 18 hours ago
This Beautiful Subaru Pays Tribute to 9/11! http://t.co/gGyLnsP 22 hours ago
I posted 53 photos on Facebook in the album "Vintage on Enclave 9.9.11" http://t.co/V9bNVb3 2 days ago
Looks like the rest of the month is shaping up to be a great one!  $73 has been raised so far for donations to... http://t.co/diJbSyA 3 days ago

AM Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011

Tags and Tags240sx
access zero
acura
All Team Bash
automodia
camaro
car meet
cars
chevy
classics
cobra
Coffee and Cars
corvette
dancing
dj tito
Dodge
DWS Parts
ferrari
Fit
ford
fundraiser
Girls
Honda
Houston
Imports
Integra
Lamborghini
mitsubishi
muscle
Muscle Cars
mustang
nissan
nsx
parts
people
planet zero
rain
Red
s2000
subaru
sven neer
Team Sunworks
top secret
toyota
Turbo

 

Blog at WordPress.com.
       			Theme: Liquorice by Nudge Design.        		















