A look at the new 9/11 Memorial                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village...        9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day...        September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on...        Did 9/11 Have Any Significant Spiritual Impact On...        Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya        Shooting On The Egyptian And Israeli Security led To...          Remembering 9/11 on DVD        Ahmadinejad:US Used 9/11 As Excuse To Start Iraq,...        World’s oldest father has done it again        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        National Grandparents Day: Forget-me-not         Truck Bomb Wounds 77 US soldiers, Kills 5 Afghans          Pakistan: Official announces closure of border to...        Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden        Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        'Spartacus' Star Andy Whitfield Dies From Lymphoma        KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Celebrity Birthdays for September 12th               A look at the new 9/11 Memorial    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 11, 2011
 
By AmberCornelio            9 0      
Views: 297
        The new 9/11 Memorial at the World Trade Center will be officially unveiled today to commemorate the 10th Anniversary of the September 11 attacks back in 2001.  Previously known as “Ground Zero,” the site, which currently features the memorial, will henceforth be known as the National September 11th Memorial. Designed by architect Michael Arad and landscape artist Peter Walker, the site comprises two granite pools, each an acre in size, sit in the exact footprints of where the Twin Towers were built, with the entire site covering 8 of the 16 acres that were affected.  Both pools have waterfalls that have a drop of 30 feet and a drainage in the center that allows the water to circulate 24/7. A third monument has an exhibition of faces and names of the people who had died.  The pools further have bronze panels that bear the names of the 2,753 victims around their perimeters, which bear witness to peoples of all nationalities, ethnicities and religions who perished that day and in 1993. By night, the panels are backlit to shine against the void of the park.  Per the Port Authority executive director, says that the fountains are the largest man-made fountains in America and two were built, enabling 660,000 gallons of water to re-circulate 24/7. The 9/11 Memorial's designer, Michael Arad, was a hitherto young and lesser known architect whose design was selected out of 5,200 proposals! In Arad’s words, “ these two acre-sized voids are like a moment of silence,” he explained “and what we do with that moment of silence depends on us.”        1 of 7        
The 9/11 Memorial with bronze panels that bear the names of the victims around the perimeter of the North Pool.
     
AmberCornelio is based in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (71.1%) China (6.3%) Portugal (3.4%) Australia (2.9%) 17 other countries (13.4%)           READ MORE: 9/11 Memorial NYC, World Trade Center, New York City, lower Manhattan 9/11 memorial, world trade, attacks, attack, IST, memorial   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 8            Reply  Posted By     Ruby1204
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing the news. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Excellent report Dear, thanks for sharing it. Rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,AmberCornelio.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     mikefreeman
|
about 20 hours
ago
  
Memorials especially by artist like Peter Walker who integrates his work into the landscape are good because they always remind this and future generations of what happened.rated up
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
nicely compiled,Thanks for sharing the news. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     Ammaduddin
|
about 15 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this report,Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this report.. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the story of the Ground Zero memorial. I guess rebuilding on the spot of the tragic events would have been in bad taste.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Obama Says Decade Since Sept. 11 Proves American Resilience  By: SyedBakhtawar      
Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. President Barack Obama marked the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks by emphasizing Americans' perseverance, saying for all the wars, disruptions and soul-searching of the past decade the country's values and optimism remain.
"Our character as a nation has not changed," the president told ...  about 3 hours ago     (40+ Photos) September 11, 2001 Commemoration - 10th Anniversary By: ken_nic2009      New York City (NYC) and the rest of the United States nationcommemorated the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center, which resulted in the deaths of 2,753 people after two hijacked planes crashed into the building located at lower Manhattan.
Friends and relatives of the victims gathered for ceremonies. One of the ...  about 8 hours ago     Meditation in New York, 10 years after the attacks against the World ... By: lalag      Ten years after the Sept. 11, Americans, united in emotion and reverence, paid tribute Sunday to some 3,000 victims of the attacks that have profoundly changed their country.In New York, where security was reinforced because of a threat "unsubstantiated" to attack by Al Qaeda, President Obama attended with his predecessor George W. Bush in a ...  about 8 hours ago     Thousands Journey to Lower Manhattan to Remember Victims, Heroes  By: alic10      Thousands of people journeyed to Lower Manhattan in New York City Sunday to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
The names of those who died on the Sept. 11 attacks were read by people
who had lost close family. Pairs of individuals would read multiple
names, and then would ...  about 10 hours ago     Americans mark Sept. 11 attacks By: ghulamalikhan      
Children yearned for lost parents and grown men and women sobbed in grief over the hard stone that bore the names of nearly 3,000 dead as America on Sunday commemorated the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.
The name of every person killed in al Qaeda's hijacked plane attacks was read in the hours-long centerpiece of a heart-wrenching ...  about 18 hours ago     Anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks revived in New York is the ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
Held events to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the attacks of September / September 2001 in New York City Sunday in the presence of President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle Obama and former U.S. President George W. Bush and first lady Laura Bush as well as relatives of victims of the attacks.  The ceremony took place at the ...  about 20 hours ago     German president remembers victims of 9/11 attacks By: alibux4      
 
German President Christian Wulff is spending the anniversary of the terror attacks on the World Trade Center attending memorial services throughout Germany. He called the attacks in the United States inhuman.
 
 
On the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks, Germany's President Christian Wulff roundly ...  about 21 hours ago     Americans mark Sept. 11 attacks 10th anniversary By: SyedBakhtawar       
NEW YORK: Americans on Sunday remembered the horror of Sept. 11, 2001, and the nearly 3,000 people who died in the hijacked plane attacks as authorities worked to ensure the emotional 10th anniversary was peaceful.
Law enforcement authorities in New York and Washington were on high alert against what was described as a “credible but ...  about 22 hours ago     U.S commemorates the 10th anniversary of 9/11 By: mahlina      
The 10th
anniversary of 9/11 terror attacks is being observed all across the United
States of America. The whole nation stands united on Sunday to remember the
morning of September 11, 2001 that claimed the lives of nearly 3,000 people.
Americans on
Sunday remember the precious lives that were lost on 9/11 in the hijacked plane
...  about 22 hours ago     People Around The World Remember Sept.11 Attacks By: YawarNaqvi       
People around the world have somberly marked the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks on the United States that killed almost 3,000 people in one day.
World leaders and citizens took time to recall the horrific attacks that left nationals from some 90 countries dead after planes crashed into New York's World Trade Center, the ...  about 23 hours ago     US marks 10 years since 9/11 By: safdarjaved      
In United States to mark the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in 2001 New York, Washington.
Security services are on high alert for the anniversary.
Bells will toll across New York and moments of silence  observed Sunday to commemorate the 9/11 attacks of 2001, in which almost 3,000 people died. 
An official memorial to those ...  about 23 hours ago     Grief at Ground Zero  By: izabel      NEW YORK:
Americans Sunday remembered the horror of September 11, 2001, and the
nearly 3,000 people who died in the hijacked plane attacks as
authorities worked to ensure the emotional 10th anniversary was
peaceful.Law enforcement authorities in New York and Washington
were on high alert against what was described as a "credible but
...  about 23 hours ago     Ten years on, Pentagon attack still causes pain  By: alibux4      A memorial at the Pentagon commemorates the September 11 attack on the site. The damaged parts of the building are long rebuilt. But the wounds it caused in survivors and victims' families are only healing slowly. 
 
On September 11, 2001, terrorists didn't only attack the World Trade Center in New York. A further target was the ...  1 day ago     Bavarian firefighters erect World Trade Center memorial By: alibux4       A simple steel beam, a remnant of the destroyed World Trade Center towers in New York, has become a symbol of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. A decade later, firefighters in Bavaria are using it to build their own memorial. 
 
Members of the group German-American Firefighters and Friends stand silently over a wooden crate, which they ...  1 day ago     10 years September 11: Tragedy in pictures By: junaid1990      10 years have passed, but everyone remembers what made the September 11, 2001, in the Portuguese case by lunchtime. First a plane hit a tower of the World Trade Center in New York.Accident? Direct, cameras rolling. After the disbelief, when a second plane hit another tower, fell at the Pentagon and a fourth crashed in Pennsylvania, ...  1 day ago     Obama rules out a repeat of an attack such as the 11-S By: abdelfattah      President
Barack Obama today honored the memory of the victims of the terrorist
attacks of September 11, 2001, on the eve of its tenth anniversary, and
declared the imminent defeat of the perpetrators, the al Qaeda network.Saturdays
In his message, Obama said that America is a safer country for 10 years
of attacks and considered ...  1 day ago     Human chain in New York in memory of 9-11 By: Ranasafdaralikhan      
Residents and tourists
in New York participated in a human chain in memory of the victims of September 11, 2001, one of the events commemorating the tenth anniversary of the attacks. The chain began to form in Battery Park at the southern tip of Manhattan at 8:47 am, the time the first plane struck the north tower of World Trade Center. ...  1 day ago     Threat of another 9/11 attack on US real By: mcfunpk      The US defense minister Leon Panetta has warned Americans to remain vigilant against the threat of another successful al-Qaeda assault similar to 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Centers. After a decade of war with al-Qaeda, Leon Panetta said that the potential for another devastating terrorist assault "remains very real.” "The potential for ...  4 days ago     The 9/11 Memorial in his own words: Michael Arad By: AsadIjaz      In his own words: Michael Arad, the architect of the 9/11 Memorial, on the project.
On September 11, 2001, "… in an
instant I became a New Yorker and felt this tremendous sense of kinship
and connection to other people in the city, and wanted in some ways to
capture that in the design of the memorial, a sense of place that is of
New ...  6 days ago     Enrolled at New York Memorial 11-S By: abdelfattah      Hundreds of working New Yorkers are the finishing touches to the New York Memorial, a building which will honor the terrrorista v'cictimas the attack of September 11, in a few days will mark its tenth anniversary. Since 2006 that is being built this memorial to commemorate the victims of September 11, 2001. The design of remembrance for both ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     In Progress: 9/11 Memorial and Museum  
International Business Times
 It was officially opened to the public as of today, September 12th. The opening of the 9/11 Memorial is a first step towards the closing of a long chapter of construction at the World Trade Center site...Their design involved two large square pools...    A look at the Sept 11 Memorial Plaza  
Belleville News-Democrat
 The 9/11 Memorial is located at the site of the former World Trade Center complex and occupies approximately half of the 16-acre site. It features two waterfalls and reflecting pools, each about an acre in size, set within the footprints of the...    Two stark voids, in a city of life  
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
 two square voids in the Hudson River, with water pouring into them. He made some drawings and even a model, which he photographed on the roof of his East Village apartment building with the Manhattan skyline as a backdrop. "As a New Yorker, I had a...    Sept. 11 Memorial Debuts In New York  
KTUV
 26 pm PDT September 11, 2011 Updated: 11:56 pm PDT September 11, 2011 (CNN) -- The National September 11 Memorial opens to the public Monday -- a decade and a day after terror attacks brought down the twin towers of the World Trade Center in lower...    US Falls into Silence to Honor 9/11 Victims  
Novinite
 The ceremony at the site in New York paused at the exact time of each impact to remember the dead of a day which saw nearly 3,000 people killed. US President Barack Obama read from the Bible before relatives began to read out the names of victims.    US, World Remember 9/11 on 10th Anniversary of Attacks  
Novinite
 Photo by www.bigfoto.com People and governments across the world commemorate the 10th anniversary of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on New York City and the Pentagon in Washington D.C. On that morning, Al Qaeda suicide terrorists hijacked...   More Related Stories     Images    >         9/11 Memorial    9/11 Memorial Image Source: allvoices The 9/11 Memorial with bronze panels that bear the names of the victims ...        People view the World Trade ...    People view the World Trade ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People view the World Trade Center site in New York        People look up at construction ...    People look up at construction ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People look up at construction on One World Trade at the World Trade Center ...        A general view of the World ...    A general view of the World ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A general view of the World Trade Center site as seen from 7 World Trade ...        The under-construction One ...    The under-construction One ... Image Source: www.reuters.com The under-construction One World Trade Center stands over the World Trade ...        The under-construction One ...    The under-construction One ... Image Source: www.reuters.com The under-construction One World Trade Center stands over the World Trade ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          Robert Geller’s vision for the American male in 2012!        Denim done right at Teen Vogue’s Declare Your Denim Show!        Anniversary of the attack on the Twin Towers in 11 images        Military Jets Safely Escort Flight to NYC After Reported Disturbance         Loadsheding in USA in 3 states        Parker Movie Cast        The Fast and the Furious 6 Movie Cast        New York drama relives ten years later           Perfect Sense Poster       Maraykanka oo ka cabsi qaba in werar lala beegsado 9/11 anniversary oo ku beegan bishan 11′keeda        Mission: Impossible Ghost Protocol Poster        Dolphin Tale Poster          9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another Dawn Hovers With Hope                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10305817          Cartoons of The Day             September 11          11            Ground Zero          Cake    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: ENG vs IND 4th ODI highlights - India set 281 ... By: richwebnews
| about 21 hours ago
      Peter Negron 10 years later: ‘I miss you so much, Dad’ By: AsadIjaz
| about 17 hours ago
      Osama Bin Laden's Dead Body Picture Surfaces (Photo) By: RaulDeSouza
| about 11 hours ago
      Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya By: StephEaly
| about 14 hours ago
      Today’s popular search: “Osama bin Laden dead picture” By: mahlina
| about 21 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      America Remembers: 9/11 Honored at Silver Bluff Village 100th Birthday ... By: katetier
| about 11 hours ago
      9/11 Commemorative Moments: As The 'Door' Of That Day Closes, Another ... By: susievee
| about 9 hours ago
      Four terror suspects arrested in Sweden By: faraway
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Continues to trade lower By: shiraxinco
| about 3 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     A pilot F-16 was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11; By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
       Nate Storm landfall in Veracruz By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      France Slams UN Failure on Syria Crackdown By: Ruby1204
| about 24 hours ago
      Guatemala Votes for New President By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      10 tips for making perfect home fries By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Video: Pizarro scored two goals in the win over Werder Bremen of ... By: crown62
| about 22 hours ago
      September 11th Gives Americans a Chance to Reflect on Their Society By: BMcPherson
| about 19 hours ago
      A look at the new 9/11 Memorial By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
      Pakistan urged Swiss government to reject the plea for political ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 4 hours ago
      PM Gilani appeals the nation to support government’s efforts for ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 9 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 18       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 8       Comments: 8    8       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10305817), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10305817 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10305817 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “A look at the new 9/11 Memorial” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10305817-a-look-at-the-new-911-memorial.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         