5 Embarrassing Health Questions—Answered - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to SchoolFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty


Trending Now»daily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots



















5 Embarrassing Health Questions—AnsweredBy Dana Sullivan | Woman's Day – Thu, 8 Sep, 2011 2:16 PM EDT

Bothersome bladder problems, alarming odors, hair growing in all
the wrong places. We all have issues that we’re too embarrassed to
bring up with anyone—including our doctors. But rest assured, your
doc has heard it all before. “It’s our job to help you, not judge
you,” says Laura Dean, MD, a spokeswoman for the American College
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists who practices in Stillwater,
Minnesota. Still, inquiring about a delicate health problem can be
uncomfortable. That’s why we decided to start the conversation for
you by asking experts to address six common blush-worthy
complaints.
Q: Sometimes I pee a little when I
laugh or run, but I don’t want to take medication. Should I even
bother mentioning this to my doctor?



A: Absolutely, says ob-gyn Lissa Rankin, MD,
author of What’s Up Down There? And in fact, medication doesn’t
work for stress incontinence, which is what you’re describing.
Stress incontinence—the most common form of incontinence in women,
as it often occurs post-pregnancy when the muscles and connective
tissue around the bladder and urethra weaken or stretch out—is
prompted by laughing, coughing, exercise or other physical
exertion. (Increased or sudden pressure on the bladder forces urine
out.)

One of the best fixes is Kegel exercises, which
involve squeezing your pelvic floor muscles to strengthen them.
Your doctor can explain how to do the exercises properly, or you
can go to MayoClinic.com/Health/Kegel-Exercises/WO00119 for
step-by-step instructions. Some women also benefit from “timed
voiding,” which means emptying your bladder on a regular schedule,
such as every hour. The less full your bladder is, the less likely
you are to leak.
Sometimes the problem is caused by prolapse (when your bladder has
fallen out of place a little, which your gynecologist can detect).
In that case, a device called a pessary can help. You can wear it
all the time or just put it in when you think you’ll need it—like
when you plan to go running—and it will push your bladder back into
its proper place. Photo: Shutterstock


Learn the truth about sex after pregnancy.
Q: I’m losing my hair. Could I be going
bald?



A: It’s normal to lose up to 100 hairs a day at
any age. But the sad truth is that women’s hair (like men’s) may
naturally get thinner with age. And some women do experience
female-pattern hair loss—the top and front of the head is most
affected. (It can start as early as your 30s, but it may worsen
around menopause.) Still, you should definitely raise this issue
with your doctor, especially if you’re starting to see bald spots
or your hair is coming out in clumps. “There are many reasons for
hair loss, including stress, thyroid conditions and infections,”
says Sonia Badreshia-Bansal, MD, a member of the American Academy
of Dermatology and a clinical instructor of dermatology at the
University of California, San Francisco. Numerous medications,
including antidepressants, birth control and blood pressure drugs,
can also cause hair loss. Hormonal changes (for example, if you’ve
recently given birth or stopped taking birth control pills) can
cause your hair to thin as well, but once your hormones stabilize,
your hair should return to normal in about six months.

Dieting can cause your hair to thin, especially if
you’re not getting enough protein, iron and B vitamins, as they are
essential for healthy hair. Dr. Badreshia-Bansal sometimes
recommends a biotin (B vitamin) supplement.
If your doctor determines that so-called “normal” female-pattern
hair loss is to blame, she’ll probably recommend over-the-counter
minoxidil (Rogaine), a topical solution that slows down hair loss
and stimulates new strands. She may also prescribe spironolactone
(Aldactone), an oral medication that blocks the hormone receptors
that cause hair loss. Photo: Ron Sumners / Thinkstock

Eat these foods for healthy hair and nails.
Q: I brush and floss twice a day but I
still have bad breath. Why? 


A: You may be forgetting a crucial factor: your
tongue. Since bad-breath-causing bacteria and plaque can build up
there, use a tongue scraper once or twice a day. And make sure to
get the back of your tongue in particular, since that’s where
plaque tends to accumulate, says dentist
Catrise Austin, DDS, author of 5 Steps to the Hollywood A-List
Smile. Chewing sugar-free gum (look for the ingredient xylitol,
which helps inhibit the growth of bacteria) can also help a little,
as can chewing on mint leaves or parsley or drinking cardamom,
anise or peppermint tea—they’re all natural breath sweeteners, says
Dr. Austin. And of course, you’ll want to steer clear of foods like
garlic and onions; their pungent oils can haunt your breath for up
to three days!
If none of that works, see your dentist. You may have gum
disease, a cavity or an abscess. But if your dentist doesn’t detect
an oral health problem—or if whatever treatment she
suggests doesn’t help within a few months—you may need to see a
gastroenterologist. About 10 percent of chronic bad breath problems
stem from digestive problems such as ulcers, acid reflux and
lactose intolerance. Another possible cause: a sinus infection, in
which the sinuses become inflamed and mucus may drip into the
throat. If that’s the case, an ear, nose and throat (ENT) doctor
can help you get the right treatment. Photo:
Thinkstock 

Find out what your dentist wants you to know.
Q: Why am I suddenly sprouting a
mustache and a beard?



A: Blame genetics and hormones. Some
women—especially those of Middle Eastern, South Asian and
Mediterranean descent—naturally have thick, coarse hair. But even
those who used to be relatively smooth-faced tend to get hairier
starting in perimenopause (usually in your 40s), thanks to hormonal
shifts, says Dr. Badreshia-Bansal. If you’re younger than 40 or
you’re also breaking out a lot, however, you could have a thyroid
problem or polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PCOS is a condition in
which the ovaries make excess amounts of androgens (male hormones
that women also make), and it may increase your risk of infertility
and diabetes. Your doctor should order blood tests to figure out if
you have PCOS or a thyroid disorder and treat you accordingly.

There are many ways you can remove facial hair. But if
you’re thinking about laser removal, know that it will only work
well if your hair is dark, because lasers target pigment, says Dr.
Badreshia-Bansal. Another option: Vaniqa. This prescription cream
can help thin out hair by targeting an enzyme that’s involved in
hair growth. Photo: Shutterstock

Discover
everything you need to know about waxing.
Q: I can’t wear black because my
dandruff is so bad, but “dandruff shampoo” doesn’t help. What
will?



A: Try alternating products with different
active ingredients, says Cynthia Bailey, MD, a California-based
dermatologist. Zinc pyrithione (Selsun Salon and Head &
Shoulders) has anti-yeast properties; ketoconazole (Nizoral) is an
antifungal and anti-yeast; coal tar (Neutrogena T/Gel) and selenium
sulfide (Selsun Blue Medicated and Head & Shoulders Clinical
Strength) slow the production of skin cells; and salicylic acid
(Neutrogena T/Sal) scrubs the scalp. Dr. Bailey recommends buying
two or three of these and switching every time you wash. She also
recommends sudsing up first with a regular shampoo to dissolve oil
and product buildup so the medicine will penetrate better. Then
apply the dandruff shampoo directly to your scalp and let it sit
for about 5 minutes. You should see noticeable improvement within
one month. If not, see a dermatologist, since you may need a
stronger prescription remedy (such as a steroid solution or
foam).

If you’re looking for a more natural fix, try coating your scalp
with warm mineral oil or peanut oil, then use a fine-tooth comb to
loosen flakes before shampooing, says Dr. Bailey. Tea tree oil
shampoos (sold in health food stores) can also be effective.
Whatever you do, make sure you shampoo as often as possible
(ideally every day). “People with dandruff tend to wash their hair
less frequently because they assume the condition is caused by
dryness, but it’s not,” says Bruce Robinson, MD, clinical
instructor of dermatology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York
City. An overgrowth of yeast may be to blame, but experts say that
people who have it generally have an oily scalp, which can allow
dead skin cells to accumulate and flake off. Photo: Sanne Berg
/ Thinkstock
Dana Sullivan writes about health and fitness from her home in
Reno, Nevada. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, O:
The Oprah Magazine and Real Simple.

Article originally appeared on 
WomansDay.com.

You Might Also Like:


10 Foods That Can Help You Sleep


8 Sex Questions You’re Too Embarrassed to Ask


9 Habits That Can Do More Harm Than Good


10 Exercises for Better Sex


18 Foods for a Healthier Life






All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        9 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













Allison
5 hours ago

This article surprisingly is somewhat useful. My hair is falling out because of my fibromyalgia, studies show that people with fibro have a hard time absorbing certain vitamins and minerals and I know I'm definitely low in iron. I always knew too that to not have bad breath you gotta clean your tongue so a tongue scraper is the way to go, preferably stainless steel or copper to be effective. Xylitol is a way better and healthier sweetener in gum than aspartame is but you can only find most of these types of gum at the health food store or if your lucky at the dentist.




 








j
6 hours ago

Another great article, this keep getting better day after day, keep up the good work Yahoo! Damn I forgot to take my pills!




 








moseytron78
6 hours ago

why oh why do I keep reading yahoo news????!!!!!  useless piece of shit articles.




 








HolisticChick
8 hours ago

Actually, shampooing everyday is not good for your scalp, dandruff or not. Rinsing with water everyday is fine, but keep shampoo to every other day or every third day. Also, try rinsing with apple cider vinegar for dandruff - it works and it's a great conditioner for hair! And no, your hair won't smell afterwards.




 








Major tom
11 hours ago

My god! Those issues are just the worst ever, losing hair man, jump in front of a train quick. 99% of people on this planet have all or some of those issues.




 









12 hours ago

People call these embarrassing?  Trust me, your doctor has seen all of this and much worse...try being a 17 year-old volunteer in a doctor's office, only to have patients tell YOU their problems (vaginal itch, requests for anal landscaping to remove hemorrhoids, stuck Benoit balls - all sorts of things that the receptionist does NOT need to know).  Seriously, if these are the worst of your concerns, there are lots of other people out there with much more embarrassing issues.




 








Chess
17 hours ago

I guess they thought sexual disfunctions were too obviously embarrassing to bother mentioning. Persistent body odor is also hard to ask your dr. about, too,  I imagine, as well as chronic constipation.




 








Brunhilda Swecker
21 hours ago

DON'T eat things with suger-substitutes. They cause brain-damage. Morons.




 








flamborough
23 hours ago

Typical Yahoo Shine.  It's all about the biatches.  What could be more embarrassing than hey doc I can't get a boner?








 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
New York Fashion Week
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesRuffling Feathers in Montreal: Gordon Ramsay's Canadian RotisserieFood Network - 14 hours agoCancer-fighting virus50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 tips for healthy kids50Plus.com - 15 hours ago8 tips for surviving fall allergies50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 habits for a heart healthy lifestyle50Plus.com - 15 hours ago

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play Video'Miracle Babies' Last Hope
Play VideoCould SpongeBob Be Bad for Kid …
Play VideoAnxiety about abductor
Play VideoPink fire truck hits the stree …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 48prevnext
Clinton's surprise gesture at 9/11 memorial
Teen star's TIFF outfit raises eyebrows
The 25 most powerful images from 9/11
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
See the cast of 'Home Improvement' now















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending Nowdaily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots














                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















