
         East Valley Tribune - Arizona Local News
         






East Valley Tribune - Arizona Local News





















Advanced Search












Home


Local

Chandler
Gilbert
Mesa
Tempe
Queen
                 Creek

The
                 Valley
Cop
                 Shop
Education
Health

Weather
Special Reports
Photos



Arizona

Politics
Immigration
Education



Nation/World

 



Sports

 



Varsity Xtra

 



Money

 




GetOut

Event Calendar
Expo
Pets
Travel
Living Green
Movies
TV
Theater
Celebs
Comics
Horoscope
Games
Lottery
Videos



Opinion

Columnists
The
                 Vent
Letters to the
                 Editor
Submit a
                 Letter
Polls
Our View
Forums



Blogs

Nerdvana
EV Moms

Varsity
                 Xtra
Spiritual
                 Life
Data
                 Doctors



Deals


Classified


Place an ad
View Ads
Service
                 Directory
Legals/Public Notices



Obits

View
                 Obituaries
View
                 Guestbook
Local
                 Death Records
Obituary resources













 
Follow @evtrib



AAA  Sep. 7, 2011 3:21 AM ETWinds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calmJIM VERTUNOJIM VERTUNO, Associated PressMICHAEL GRACZYKMICHAEL GRACZYK, Associated Press        AIM      Share      Google      Digg      Del.icio.us      REddit      NewsVine      Mixx      Facebook      Yahoo





Laura Clements, left, and brother Ben, survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.  (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Laura Clements, left, and brother Ben, survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.  (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







Willie Clements surveys his fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Clements lost his home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)







A Cushing, Texas, firefighter approaches a section of the front line of a massive wildfire on Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, near Lilbert, Texas. The Texas Forest Service estimated the fire, one of several throughout the state, had burned an estimated 2,600 acres as of Wednesday morning. (AP Photo/The Daily Sentinel, Andrew D. Brosig)







Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, speaks during a news conference Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Austin, Texas. Perry marveled at the destruction and pointed out that more than 100,000 acres in the drought-stricken state had burned over the past week, and that more than 3.5 million acres _ an area roughly the size of Connecticut _ had burned since December. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Ricardo B. Brazziell)  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT; INTERNET OUT; AP MEMBERS ONLY




.   .


1 of 5

.   .








More News
Video



 
















BASTROP, Texas (AP) — One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.The blaze is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.An elite search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin, that has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate. Raging with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles.Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from howling winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased humidity was moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report some containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said."Tonight should be a good night, tomorrow should be a good day — we hope," Nichols said late Tuesday. "The reason why it hasn't been able to be contained is the wind. We still have a lot of active fire on the line, but today was the first day we had very light wind."In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements' two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames."We lost everything," said Clements, who with his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand.""This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old said.Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. He later deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina."Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres on Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze that destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. The Postal Service delivered mail to burned homes where only mailboxes were left standing.John Chapman's home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a '57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: "You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.""The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I'm not going to worry about it," he said.About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires."The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."___Michael Graczyk reported from Houston. Also contributing to this story were Associated Press reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin, Paul Weber in San Antonio, and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop.Associated PressCopyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.News Topics: Property damage, Wildfires, Residential fires, Natural disasters, Accidents and disasters, Fires, Emergency management, Weather, General news, Government and politicsPeople, Places and Companies: Rick Perry, Jay Carney, Eric Gay, Austin, Houston, United States, Texas      AIM      Share      Google      Digg      Del.icio.us      REddit      NewsVine      Mixx      Facebook      Yahoo





















    AP Privacy Policy  | AP Terms of Use 




Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus





























Sections

Local
Arizona
Nation/World
Sports
Varsity Xtra
Business
Get Out
Opinion
Blogs
Deals
Classifieds
Obits 



Services

About Us
Advertising Info
Contact Us
Find a Rack Location
Local Businesses
Place An Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Map
User Agreement




Affiliates

Ahwatukee Foothills News
AZ Interactive Media Group
Daily News-Sun (Sun City)
Glendale Today
Peoria Today
Surprise Today
Explorer (Tucson)



Contact us
EastValleyTribune.com
East Valley Tribune 
Phone number: 480-TRIBUNE
E-mail: sitefeedback@evtrib.com
Address: 1620 W. Fountainhead Parkway, Suite 219
         Tempe, AZ 85282







© Copyright 2011, East Valley Tribune, Mesa, AZ. [Terms of Use | Privacy Policy]










