  2010  October



Progressive News Daily
Progressive Political News with World & National News











Archive for October, 2010

« Previous Entries



HAPPY HALLOWEEN FROM PROGRESSIVE NEWS DAILY

“HOW PUMPKIN PIE IS MADE”

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Humor |   Comments Off


Blame It On Rahm

by Eric Alterman The Daily Beast No president could hope to see his party succeed in a midterm election where unemployment hovers near ten percent—actually over sixteen percent if you count the people who have given up looking for a job. But the size and scope of the shellacking the Democrats are about to earn [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Democratic Party, Elections |   Comments Off


Van Hollen: Keeping Democratic control of the House Tuesday ‘not a lost cause’

By Russell Berman The Hill The House Democratic campaign chief said Sunday that holding the House “is not a lost cause.” “I think all these Washington pundits are going to be surprised,” the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), said on “Fox News Sunday.” “I believe Democrats are going [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Congress, Democratic Party, Elections |   Comments Off


Why Won’t Women Vote? It’s the Economy, Stupid

by Bryce Covert New Deal 2.0 You can now count the hours until Election Day. In this home stretch, pundits, politicians, and people of all ages are trying to read the tea leaves. That the GOP will make big gains — very possibly taking one, if not both, of the houses of Congress — seems [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in economy, Elections |   Comments Off


If Republicans Lose on Tuesday, There Will Be Blood

The Rude Pundit Since we in the so-called business of so-called punditry are supposed to be Jean Dixon-esque prognosticators upon occasion, making wildly inaccurate predictions about what will probably not happen, but, boy, if it did, won’t we look fucking brilliant, let the Rude Pundit toss one into the pile: if, as the most optimistic [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Elections, Republicans, Teabaggers, violence |   Comments Off


Government Spending Hypocrisy: Some Candidates Against Spending Get Tax Breaks, Government Contracts

Kimberly Leonard, The Huffington Post Investigative Fund, and Aaron Mehta, The Center for Public Integrity In his quest for West Virginia’s Senate seat, Republican John Raese frequently attacks “professional politicians’ out-of-control spending spree” as he promises voters that he’ll rein in the federal budget. What the businessman-turned-politician leaves unspoken is that his own company has [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Hypocrisy, Republicans, Total Bull$hit |   Comments Off


Suicide bomber wounds 32 in Istanbul’s main square

Reuters ISTANBUL (Reuters) – A suspected suicide bomber wounded 32 people in an attack targeting Turkish police in Istanbul’s main square on Sunday. No organization has claimed responsibility, officials said, though the city has been targeted in the past by Kurdish separatist militants and al Qaeda, as well as militants from Turkey’s far-left. “It was [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in bombing, terrorism |   Comments Off


UK says bomb could have brought down plane

By Stefano Ambrogi LONDON (Reuters) – A bomb found on a U.S.-bound cargo plane was designed to go off on board the aircraft and could have been powerful enough to bring it down, possibly over Britain, ministers said on Saturday. Interior minister Theresa May said the device, found at a British airport on Friday, was [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


Shooter targeting Marine Corps facilities could be ex-marine

By Anna Mulrine The Christian Science Monitor Authorities seem increasingly convinced that a shooter who is targeting Marine Corps facilities is a disgruntled former service member. But officials are going out of their way to reassure current marines that they personally are likely not the target of the gunman’s ire. The fourth in a series [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Military Veterans, U.S. Soldiers, WTF |   Comments Off


Rand Paul ‘head stomper’ charged with misdemeanor assault

By Daniel Tencer The Raw Story A volunteer for Rand Paul’s Senate campaign has been charged with misdemeanor assault after being filmed stomping on a progressive activist’s head during a debate, Kentucky news sources report. Timothy Profitt of Bourbon County, Kentucky, has admitted to being the person seen stomping on MoveOn activist Lauren Valle’s head [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Republicans, violence |   Comments Off


Rachel Maddow missed the boat on this one

by karoli Crooks & Liars.com In Rachel’s opening segment Friday night, she compared and contrasted the Democrats’ message of compromise with the Republicans “hell no” stance and took the Dems to task for not noticing that there was no one to compromise with. In her analysis, she missed the true message of the “we’ll compromise” [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Democratic Party, Elections, MSNBC |   Comments Off


Cargo plane bomb plot: Yemen arrests female student

Haroon Siddique The Guardian A woman arrested in Yemen on suspicion of sending two mail bombs discovered on US-bound cargo planes was named today. Hanan al-Samawi, 22, a student at the University of Sana’a, was arrested after police surrounded a house in the Yemeni capital. Her 45-year-old mother was arrested with her, according to Yemeni [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


The Day D.C. Went Sane

by Howard Kurtz The Daily Beast It was a bit of an insane scene getting to the sanity rally. The size of the crowds took everyone—at least in the professional prognostication class—by surprise. Maybe Jon Stewart is as big as Glenn Beck. Maybe bigger. Maybe passionate moderation is underrated. Or maybe these hordes of people [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Humor, politics |   Comments Off


Goldman Conspiracy’s “Halloween Chainsaw Massacre Party” Vote: “Best Costume” on Your Favorite American Financial Villain for a Horror Film!

by Paul B Farrell, JD, PhD Wall Street War Zone Yes, Halloween is a perfect holiday to commemorate how the Goldman Conspiracy and Wall Street’s other “too-greedy-to-fail” banksters have returned from the dead, like mummies, ghouls, zombies, vampires, all “undead,” rising out of their tombs, crypts, catacombs and mausoleums to suck the bloody retirement funds [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Financial |   Comments Off


The Collapse of America: Dying Earlier and Losing Everything

By Grant Lawrence Bodhi Thunder <—Home Page So you think things are bad? The economy is a mess and the mass foreclosures and joblessness are called a recovery. But we have another election that will certainly make things all right. Or so you hope. But let’s look at how bad things actually are: ….According to [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in recession |   Comments Off


Woman Receives Death Threats Days After Beck Targets Her On His Show

by Alex Seitz-Wald Alternet.org Originally from Think Progress The League of Women Voters has filed complaints with police in Evanston, IL and the FBI saying that one of their officials has been targeted by death threats relating to a candidates debate she moderated last week. Kathy Tate-Bradish was a volunteer moderator at the October 21 [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Hate speech/groups |   Comments Off


GOP Hopefuls Threaten Reproductive Rights, Support for Poor Women

by Rose Aguilar truthout.org <—Home Page The national media proudly proclaimed 2010 as the Year of the GOP Woman, but they’ve largely failed to bring actual women’s issues into the conversation. Take abortion. “The media silence on abortion means we might end up forcing women to bear their rapists’ baby and the average American doesn’t [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Elections, Human Rights, Religious Right, Republicans, right-wingers, Total Bull$hit |   Comments Off


Miss US crowned Miss World 2010

Indo-Asian News Service Hindustan Times Miss US Alexandria Mills, dressed in a crisp white evening gown, was crowned the 60th Miss World 2010 on Saturday evening in China’s Sanya city. Miss Botswana Emma Wareus, dressed in a yellow gown, was named the first runner-up while Miss Venezuela Adriana Vasini was named the second runner-up. Indian [...]

October 31st, 2010  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Stewart and Colbert rally thousands to ‘restore sanity’

By Saul Loeb USA Today USA TODAY’s Lindsay Deutsch and Marisa Kendall send these reflections from people as they head home: * “Coming in, I didn’t really know what to expect. I think it was better than I expected. There was good music, good comedy, and I think Jon Stewart’s message in the end was [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in politics |   Comments Off


Yemeni arrested, al-Qaida bomber eyed in mail plot

By EILEEN SULLIVAN and AHMED AL-HAJ The Associated Press SAN’A, Yemen – Yemeni police arrested a woman on suspicion of mailing a pair of bombs powerful enough to take down airplanes, officials said Saturday as details emerged about a terrorist plot aimed at the U.S. that exploited security gaps in the worldwide shipping system. Investigators [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


The Faith-Based Vote

By Brad Friedman Slate.com In many of Tuesday’s closest races, states will use those same old, suspect voting machines. You probably believe Delaware’s U.S. Senate nominee Christine O’Donnell defeated Mike Castle in the state’s August GOP primary. You may be right, but you can’t prove it. The only thing that can be proved is that [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in Elections, fraud |   Comments Off


China gives U.S. assurances on rare earth minerals

By Arshad Mohammed Reuters HANOI (Reuters) – China told the United States on Saturday it would not withhold rare earth minerals and Washington offered to host three-way talk to ease Sino-Japanese tension, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said. Clinton’s talks with Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi in Hanoi — to be followed by a [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Obama Needs An Enemy – John Boehner is The Man For The Job

by Peter Beinart The Daily Beast Amid the misery of the moment, here’s something Democrats can look forward to: President Obama is about to get his foil. He’s needed one throughout his career. In 2007, it was the contrast with Hillary Clinton that accentuated Obama’s freshness and authenticity. In 2008, it was during the presidential [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in John Boehner, Nancy Pelosi, President Obama, Republicans |   Comments Off


David Shuster, in his own words

by Laffy The Political Carnival I had a nice conversation with David Shuster on Facebook a few minutes ago. I asked him whether the reports I’ve been hearing and reading about today were true. He had a lot to say, but for legal reasons, I am unable to share all of it with you, because [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in MSNBC |   Comments Off


A Boot to the Head … From Michael Moore

by Michael Moore Op/Ed Michael Moore.com There she was, thrown to the pavement by a Republican in a checkered shirt. Another Republican thrusts his foot in between her legs and presses down with all his weight to pin her to the curb. Then a Republican leader comes over and viciously stomps on her head with [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in Op/Ed |   Comments Off


8 Big Reasons Why Carly Fiorina Would Be a Disaster in the Senate

by Scott Thill AlterNet.org Fiorina ranks as the 19th worst CEO in American history. Where did she get the gall to run in the first place? Republican candidate and itinerant executive Carly Fiorina is on a quixotic quest to unseat Democratic senator Barbara Boxer, one of the Golden State’s most progressive politicians with a long [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in Elections, right-wingers |   Comments Off


Thousands expected at Stewart-Colbert rally in DC

The Chicago Sun-Times Comedians Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert are appealing to thousands to rally with them in the nation’s capital Saturday for a return to “sanity.” Their fans just aren’t certain what to expect. Organizers insist the “Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear” on the National Mall isn’t about politics. Still, that hasn’t dampened [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in Humor |   Comments Off


Terror investigators examine more packages

By EILEEN SULLIVAN and MATT APUZZO AP WASHINGTON – Yemeni authorities are checking dozens more packages in the search for terrorists who tried to mail bombs to Chicago-area synagogues in a brazen plot that heightened fears of a new al-Qaida terror attack. Authorities on three continents thwarted the attacks when they seized explosives on cargo [...]

October 30th, 2010  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


Explosive found in Dubai, part of US terror probe

By EILEEN SULLIVAN and MATT APUZZO AP WASHINGTON – President Barack Obama declared Friday that authorities had uncovered a “credible terrorist threat” against the United States following the overseas discovery of U.S.-bound packages containing explosives aboard cargo jets. Obama said both had been addressed to Jewish organizations in the Chicago area. The events “underscore the [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


BREAKING NEWS: Officials examine suspicious packages in US, UK

AP Philadelphia A suspicious package containing a toner cartridge with wires and powder was found during routine screening of cargo in the United Kingdom, prompting authorities to scour three planes and a truck in the United States on Friday. (more as it becomes available)

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Koreas exchange gunfire at land border

By Cheon Jong-woo and Ju-min Park Reuters SEOUL (Reuters) – North and South Korea exchanged gunfire across their heavily armed land border on Friday, the South’s military said, despite an apparent thaw in tensions on the divided peninsula in the past few months. The rare exchange of fire took place a fortnight before the leaders [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in North Korea |   Comments Off


Tea-Party backed candidates spur party switches

Reuters For lifelong Republican Joe Errigo, deciding to cross party lines and support a liberal Democrat for New York governor wasn’t nearly as difficult as one might expect. Republican candidate Carl Paladino — backed by the conservative Tea Party movement — raised such political hackles he spawned a “Republicans for Cuomo” movement supporting Democrat Andrew [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in Teabaggers |   Comments Off


Poll: Miller falls to last place

By SHIRA TOEPLITZ Politico After several rough weeks on the campaign trail, a new poll out of Alaska shows Republican Joe Miller has fallen to last place in the three-way Senate race. A Hays Research Group poll released Thursday showed write-in candidates, presumably meaning Sen. Lisa Murkowski, in the lead with 34 percent, Democrat Scott [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


The Digital Disruption

By Eric Schmidt and Jared Cohen Foreign Affairs.com The advent and power of connection technologies — tools that connect people to vast amounts of information and to one another — will make the twenty-first century all about surprises. Governments will be caught off-guard when large numbers of their citizens, armed with virtually nothing but cell [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in Technology |   Comments Off


Why the Politicians with the Most Dangerous, Wrong Ideas Are Probably Going to Win the Congress

by David Sirota AlterNet.org Shaken by an assault on their assumptions, many Americans become more adamant in defense of discredited ideology. Redistributionist — as epithets go, the moniker is so mild, so…2008. Today, we’re hammered by screeds against Democrats’ alleged socialism and President Obama’s supposed Marxism. The class war is clearly on — the paranoids [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in Elections, politics, Republicans, right-wingers |   Comments Off


SPORTS (WORLD SERIES): Giants blow Game 2 open with 7-run 8th behind Cain’s gem

By Bob Nightengale USA TODAY SAN FRANCISCO — San Francisco Giants starter Matt Cain hates big-city living, large crowds and anything in the winter that takes him away from fishing and skeet shooting. He might have only himself to blame if he’s on a victory parade float next week, mobbed by hundreds of thousands of [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in sports |   Comments Off


Lawsuit Says Toyota secretly bought problem cars

By Steve Gorman Reuters LOS ANGELES (Reuters) – Toyota secretly bought back from U.S. consumers vehicles it found with speed-control defects as part of a strategy to hide unintended-acceleration problems from safety regulators and the public, a revised lawsuit claims. The repurchase transactions included strict confidentiality agreements barring consumers from disclosing the problem to anyone [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in automakers |   Comments Off


Halliburton Spill Liability May Rise on BP Well Report

The San Francisco Chronicle Halliburton Co. may face increased liability in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill after the staff of a U.S. presidential panel said the contractor knew cement it mixed for BP Plc‘s well was unstable. The staff of the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill said documents provided by [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in British Petroleum (BP) |   Comments Off


Routine Wilderness Bill Sparks Immigration Outcry

by Elise Foley The Washington Independent Enforcement Advocates Worry Bill Will Hamper Border Security On July 21, the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources unanimously approved a bill to designate part of the Organ Mountains in southern New Mexico as wilderness. It was a routine measure — the committee passes several federal land designation [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in immigration |   Comments Off


Is Tuesday looking so bad that even Dennis Kucinich is an endangered species?

by Andrew Malcolm The Los Angeles Times Ohio Democratic Rep. Dennis Kucinich is a tough guy who has bounced up and back from numerous family and political adversities in his 64 years. He’s lived in the family car; shined shoes; been a court clerk, a young Cleveland city councilman, a victorious, obstreperous big-city mayor, a [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Despite claims, bailouts not over yet

By DANIEL WAGNER The Associated Press WASHINGTON – The Treasury Department says its bank bailouts are over, but the spending continues. In a Sept. 22 speech, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said the bailouts “are completely behind us.” That’s not quite correct. In the final six months in which it could spend money from the Troubled [...]

October 29th, 2010  | Posted in economy, Federal Reserve, Financial |   Comments Off


WTF? Rand Paul Supporter Who Stomped on Woman’s Head Wants an Apology

by joanmccarter Daily Kos vis Alternet.org You really can’t make this stuff up — via Barefoot and Progressive, Rand Paul’s now-former Bourbon County coordinator Tim Profitt, caught on tape Monday night stomping on the head of Lauren Valle, wants an apology. Profitt blames his back, the police, and of course Valle herself for getting her [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Fishermen Report Louisiana Bays Filled With Oil

by Dahr Jamail and Erika Blumenfeld truthout.org On Saturday, October 23, Truthout spotted what appeared to be massive areas of weathered oil floating near Louisiana’s fragile marshlands in both East and West Bays along the Mississippi River Delta. In addition, at least two more oil leaks were spotted near oil and gas platforms along Louisiana’s [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in British Petroleum (BP) |   Comments Off


Money Wars

By CONN HALLINAN Counter Punch Are the U.S. and China on a collision course? Consider the following: During the 2010 mid-term elections, some 30 candidates for the House and Senate are blasting China for everything from undermining America’s financial structure to fueling the U.S. unemployment crisis. The Obama Administration is accusing China of manipulating its [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in Financial |   Comments Off


Warren: “My Money Is On the AG Investigation” In Foreclosure Fraud Mess

by David Dayan FiredogLake.com Elizabeth Warren was asked about the foreclosure fraud scandal, and she agrees with me – the 50 state AGs have the best path to getting a legitimate solution to the problem for their constituents. Do you support a nationwide foreclosure moratorium? Right now my money is on the attorneys general [who [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in banking, Crime, foreclosures, fraud |   Comments Off


Republicans, heading for big gains, ready agenda

By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS The Associated Press “If we win, we’re cramming this down your throats.” WASHINGTON – Republican leaders, ever more confident of their chances of winning control of the House and possibly even the Senate, have begun plotting a 2011 agenda topped by a push for more than $100 billion in spending cuts, [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in Elections, Republicans, right-wingers |   Comments Off


NPR Receives Bomb Threat After Juan Williams Firing

by Ben Armbruster Think Progress.org The media firestorm that resulted from NPR’s decision to fire Juan Williams for making a bigoted remark about Muslims included rhetorical bombs lobbed from Williams’ cohorts at Fox News. As Media Matters noted, conservatives have used Williams’ firing as an excuse to continue their war on NPR and to call [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in politics |   Comments Off


One EMP burst and the world goes dark

By Dan Vergano USA TODAY The sky erupts. Cities darken, food spoils and homes fall silent. Civilization collapses. End-of-the-world novel? A video game? Or could such a scenario loom in America’s future? There is talk of catastrophe ahead, depending on whom you believe, because of the threat of an electromagnetic pulse triggered by either a [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in science, terrorism |   Comments Off


Recession officially over, use of food stamps stays at record high

By Husna Haq The Christian Science Monitor Before the recession, Mary Ellen Hayden was living an active New York City life. She worked days at a corporate job, nights as a professional singer, taught as a substitute on occasion – and all as she was finishing her certification in secondary English education. Then the recession [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in recession |   Comments Off


The larger thuggishness: Repealing birthright citizenship.

by Paul Rosenberg Open Left.com <—Home Page The thuggish acts of violence and intimidation Mike just wrote about are not only part of a pattern, rather than just isolated acts, they are part of a pattern of patterns. That pattern of patterns is the use of force to suppress unwanted ideas or expressions. It can [...]

October 27th, 2010  | Posted in immigration, Republicans, right-wingers, Teabaggers |   Comments Off


« Previous Entries
















Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010


Categories

2012 Presidential Election (159)

Abortion (29)

Afghanistan (161)

agriculture (1)

airlines/airplanes (19)

Al-Qaeda (33)

animals (43)

Anthony Weiner (D-NY) (21)

automakers (43)

banking (154)

Bernie Sanders (I-VT) (6)

Big Oil (119)

Big PhARMA (14)

bombing (50)

books (8)

Bradley Manning (26)

British Petroleum (BP) (212)

budget crisis (110)

Business (11)

Cartoon (28)

casualties (28)

Children (32)

CIA (35)

civil rights (4)

Climate change (48)

commentary (34)

Congress (201)

consumers (24)

corporate scum (36)

corruption (84)

Crime (214)

debt ceiling talks (56)

Defense Department (9)

Deficit (82)

Democratic Party (77)

Dennis Kucinich (17)

Dick Cheney (15)

disaster (29)

disease (14)

DNC (5)

earthquake (32)

ecology (28)

economy (156)

Education (32)

Elections (306)

Employment (56)

energy (31)

Entertainment (104)

environment (99)

Eric Cantor (2)

FAA (3)

FBI (17)

FCC (33)

Federal Deficit (24)

Federal Reserve (38)

Financial (167)

financial reform (35)

Fire (30)

Flood (64)

Food (67)

foreclosures (44)

Foreign Affairs (23)

Fox News (49)

fraud (51)

Free Press.net (5)

Gabrielle Giffords (20)

Gaddafi (80)

gasoline prices (9)

Gay Marriage (24)

George Reid Commentary (48)

global warming (21)

GMOs (4)

guns (29)

Hate speech/groups (31)

Headlines (11)

Health Care (208)

Health Insurance (10)

health News (135)

Herman Cain (4)

Hero (44)

Hillary Clinton (22)

Homeland Security (32)

Housing (38)

Human Rights (19)

Humor (36)

hurricane (36)

Hypocrisy (50)

idiot (163)

immigration (71)

insurance companies (12)

Internet (65)

Iran (60)

Iraq (93)

Islam (60)

Israel (38)

Jobs (103)

John Boehner (88)

John Edwards (5)

John McCain (29)

Jon Stewart (10)

Julian Assange (33)

Justice Department (27)

Keith Olbermann (19)

Labor (67)

labor unions (55)

Lawsuit (27)

LGBT (134)

Liars (42)

Libya (113)

lobbyists (15)

marijuana (1)

Media (92)

Medicare (45)

Medicine (62)

Michele Bachmann (R-MN) (61)

Middle Class (1)

Middle East (50)

Military Veterans (7)

Miscellaneous News (933)

Mitt Romney (23)

money (18)

Mortgage crisis (33)

mosque (17)

MSNBC (27)

murder (90)

Music (35)

Music News (38)

music video (31)

Muslims (46)

Nancy Pelosi (19)

NATO (11)

Net Neutrality (19)

Newt Gingrich (28)

North Korea (24)

Nuclear power (36)

Nuclear Weapons (41)

Obama Administration (37)

Obituary (64)

Odd News (48)

Op/Ed (46)

Osama bin Laden (49)

Osama bin Laden death (25)

Pakistan (62)

Palestine (13)

Paul Ryan (10)

Pentagon (11)

politics (134)

poll (23)

pollution (36)

President Obama (344)

Progressives (14)

protests (129)

racism (48)

Radical Right (12)

recession (18)

relationships (32)

Religion (162)

Religious Right (51)

Republicans (480)

Rick Perry (31)

Rick Santorum (5)

right-wingers (207)

RNC (19)

Ron Paul (6)

Rudy Giuliani (1)

Rupert Murdoch (3)

Russia (23)

Sad Story (39)

Sarah Palin (156)

Scandal (32)

science (111)

Senate (49)

sex (78)

shooting (97)

Social Security (39)

Space (58)

sports (122)

State Department (7)

State Politics (1)

STFU (17)

Supercommittee (9)

Supreme Court (86)

Take action (24)

Taliban (20)

tax cuts (29)

taxes (107)

Teabaggers (200)

Technology (89)

Telephone companies (14)

Television (48)

terrorism (126)

Tornado (32)

torture (32)

Total Bull$hit (127)

Tragedy (106)

Travel (23)

U.S. Constitution (47)

U.S. Government (18)

U.S. Military (127)

U.S. Soldiers (64)

U.S. Treasury (9)

Uncategorized (22)

unemployment (47)

unions (36)

United Nations (2)

video (46)

violence (49)

Wall Street (78)

War (86)

War Casualties (64)

Way To Go (91)

wealthy (1)

weather news (118)

Whoops (40)

Wikileaks (74)

womens rights (21)

World News (122)

WTF (314)



Recent Entries

How Special Ops Copied al-Qaida to Kill It
Rick Perry’s Social Security Extremism: Why It Will Sink Him
‘Spartacus’ star Andy Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39
Once Upon a Time in Mississippi
New to the Neighborhood
Democrats Fret Aloud Over Obama’s Re-election
Dogs and cats now living in harmony, pigs fly, Conservatives join liberals in opposing Obama’s payroll tax cut extension
Sea Radiation from Fukushima Seen Triple of Prior Estimate
FDA Advisers Call for Revised Labels for Osteoporosis Drugs
America Remembers 9/11 – The Photos Say It All












		Copyright © Progressive News Daily - Powered by WordPress


		ProSense theme created by Dosh Dosh and The Wrong Advices.
	





				Rss Feed

				Tweeter button

				Facebook button

				Digg button

				Youtube buttonArrayPodcast powered by podPress v8.8.10.12
