Software testing - Sqa - Skill sets for software testing -   Skill Sets of Software Testing Professional










 

Home
About
Contact
Archives
Privacy
RSS














Featured
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Politics
Sport
Health
 


Skill Sets of Software Testing Professional


September 8, 2011
Featured



Tweet



 by Michael Kappel
Software
Skill Sets of Software Testing Professional 
Article  by Crestech Software
Software testing is not an easy task, a software tester should requires at least complete knowledge of software testing tools, logical and analytical ability along with quality approach to the software testing processes. A talented tester requires few more skill sets to become successful software testing professional. Unfortunately, we don’t see quality software tester in many software development and testing organizations. Majority of the people in the software community consider software testing a mediocre job suitable for people who have lesser analytical and problem-solving skills. The essential skills a software tester should have are not properly assessed when recruiting for a software testing assignment. Below is the list of essential skill sets required in a software tester: 
Logical and Analytical Thinking Any problem and task can be very well completed if the approach is right to solve the problem. For a right and directional approach one should have good logical sense to analyze the problem. The high-end thought process is the key quality in a software tester. The role of a software tester is to find the logical as well as functional errors in a software application. To find logical errors a software tester should be able to do complete visualization and mapping of the all possible scenarios. Thus to develop a strategy and to test the software application requires strong and fundamental logical and analytical approach towards software testing. 
Time management and Planning On time delivery of the project is the dream and of course duty as well as commitment of every software organization. Development of the application, testing of the application, bug-fixing of the application and release of the application versions are all the steps which are independent on each step. Any delay in above processes will extend the schedule and in turn will become more money and time consuming process. Every client wants the timely delivery of the application. Software testing plays major role in the software development life cycle, so proper planning of the software testing plans and timely execution of the plan is the commendable quality of a software tester. A Software tester should define all the testing criteria, approach, assumptions and schedule in time bound schedule and with proper planning. 
Effective communication skills A software tester requires to report for its work, to give presentation on the progress, to communicate and coordinate with the team. All these things require proper, clear and effective communication skills in a budding software tester. For experienced software tester the client interaction and management interaction increases where the good communication skills helps to grow in the organization. Along with communication skills, a software tester should emphasize on his presentation skills like body language and appearance. Apart from good communication skill a software tester should be patience to listen others and should not shy or fear to put their strong points and facts in a discussion.


http://www.crestechsoftware.com
Visit Discussion Forum For More Software Tips :
http://www.crestechsoftware.com/forum
				
onOne Software Announces Perfect Layers 2
software
PORTLAND, Ore., Sep 7, 2011 (GlobeNewswire via COMTEX) — onOne Software, Inc., a leading developer of innovative, timesaving solutions for professional and advanced amateur photographers, today announced Perfect Layers 2, part of the Perfect Photo …
How To Get Free Software,Games, Music, Movies legally
 

Here I showcase some websites that allow you to get free stuff legally without worrying about piracy. Sourceforge: sourceforge.net Freewarefiles: www.freewarefiles.com mob3 wiki: www.mob3.co.uk YouTorrent: www.youtorrent.com LegitTorrents: www.legittorrents.info Internet Archive: www.archive.org Caiman: www.caiman.us ArtistServer: www.artistserver.com Jamendo: www.jamendo.com Freeware-Guide: www.freeware-guide.com Free Decent Downloads: www.freedecentdownloads.com Neowin Forum Alternatives Thread: www.neowin.net What are your thoughts?
software Video Rating: 4 / 5

 
Other news:software testing,skill sets for software testing,			
				
Tags: Professional Sets Skill Software Testing



Related press

The best animation software - September 9, 2011Federer sets up Djokovic semi-final - September 9, 2011The best choice between Self-hosted or Remote Hosted (SaaS) Software Solutions - September 7, 2011Where is the best place to buy Rosetta Stone Software? - September 7, 20113D Easy Software - September 5, 2011Supercomputing’s problem isn’t power, it’s software - September 3, 2011Verizon buys CloudSwitch to give by itself a software package perform - August 25, 2011Landed: iPhone 5 release date upon us, Best Buy sets older iPhone freeBest Buy - August 23, 2011Restaurant software program technique-generating the process less difficult for pub restaurant - August 19, 2011UTC Electrical power&#39s Fuel Cell Program Sets Earth Record – Achieving 10000-Hour …Utc - August 10, 2011



Share this press

Share on Facebook
Tweet This!
Save to delicious
Digg it!
Stumble this!



 



0 Comments
You can be the first one to leave a comment.


Leave a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.


Name  (required):

Email  (required):

Website:



Comment:







 
 
 

 
  Recent Press 
Suárez will be a legend, says Gerrard
HP offers partial refund to full-price TouchPad buyers
Swatch Group ends partnership with Tiffany
Presented By:
Star Fox 64 3D review

 

Random PressRWC chart to show results and gamesprayer prayed on seven days in utopiaapps for nexus sastronauts spot texas wildfires from spacewatch full episodes of sister wives online for freeteen choice awards 2011 kaley interviews teenssister wives megavideoinspirational quotes on lifemartina redmond microsoftesure irwin mitchell referral fee 

Recommended Sites
Rockwell Radial Drill Press
Owners Manual PDF
Jasa Backlink
Floor Cushion Covers
Quick Step Wood Flooring
Resep Masakan
Backlinks Wordpress Plugin


 

  

 

  
 

 

 


Pages: 
Home
About
Contact
Archives
Privacy
RSS


Our Categories: 
Featured
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Politics
Sport
Health






				Design by USDP - Sitemap
				Copyright © 2011 US Digital Press. All Rights Reserved.			

Grab our RSS Feed













