Crews beginning to gain control of Central Texas wildfire - KFDM-TV Channel Six
















KTVL Home


Get Email & Mobile Alerts |
Marketplace




68°

Fair		






HOME

NEWS
Local
Regional
Election News
Entertainment News
Business News
Travel News
Newscast Links
Restaurant Report Card
Texas Lottery
Louisiana Lottery
Info Center
Manhunt Monday



WEATHER
5-Day Forecast
Live Doppler Radar
Interactive Radar

Hurricane 2011        > > >
Information
Checklist
Phone Numbers
FAQ
Evacuation
Tips
Names
211 Hotline
Storm Surge
Pets
Technology


WeatherCast
Tides
Satellite Imagery
Forecast Models
National Hurricane Center
NextRad Radar
Rivers/Lakes
Offshore Buoys
Texas Marine Weather on the Water
Download Weather Bug
Live WeatherNET
WeatherNet Classroom
Skyview



SPORTS
Local Sports
Tailgate Party 2011
Pro Highlights
Find Your School
Sports Slideshows
Lamar Cardinals
Fish/Game Report
SETX Sports
Outdoors Report
Little League Legends



PROGRAMMING
TV Listings
CBS Video Player
DTV Answers
Local HDTV Info



COMMUNITY
Movie Reviews
Event Calendar
Contests
Photo Galleries
Forums
High Schools
SETX Student News
KFDM Slideshows
Coupons



ABOUT KFDM
RSS Feeds
Job Openings
Contact Us
EEO Report



CLASSIFIEDS
Cars
Real Estate
Services






Don't Miss:

Hurricane Center |

All KFDM Videos |

Band of the Week |

Watch Newscasts Live |

Daily Links |
 












Home > Spotlight Rotator 








 


| Print Story | E-Mail Story | Font Size     



enlargecourtesy: KHOU-TV




 




Share














 
Most Viewed StoriesSeveral Helicopters Work To Put Out Magnolia FiresLaw firm employee encounters man minutes before bank robberyTailgate Party Week 2 ScoreboardMom charged with kicking & beating toddler daughter, gluing hands to wallMan charged with sexually assaulting 5-year-old



Most Commented Stories







Crews beginning to gain control of Central Texas wildfire

Comments 0




September 07, 2011 9:15 AM



Scott Lawrence




BASTROP, Texas (AP) - The number of homes destroyed in a devastating Central Texas wildfire has risen to nearly 800, but an official says firefighters had a "good night" battling the blaze.
The Texas Forest Service said Wednesday that the Bastrop County blaze had consumed 785 homes, and more than 1,000 homes statewide have been reported lost in the past three days.
But Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald says no structures were lost overnight in the battle to contain the 33,000-acre blaze about 25 miles east of Austin. Officials say containment remains at 30 percent.
The forest service says it responded to 19 new fires Wednesday totaling 1,490 acres, bringing the count over the past week to more than 170 fires consuming more than 130,000 acres.
By JIM VERTUNO Associated Press
 
(Copyright 2011 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)
 
 
BASTROP, Texas (AP) - Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-fueled blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving a trail of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.
At least two people have died in the wildfire, which has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin.
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.
The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday, and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts.
"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.
The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.
In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements' two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames.
"We lost everything," said Clements, who with his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand."
"This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old said.
Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop.
"Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."
The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland.
About 40 people who fled their homes in a Bastrop neighborhood were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
"The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."
---
By JIM VERTUNO and MICHAEL GRACZYK Associated Press
Michael Graczyk reported from Houston. Also contributing to this story were Associated Press reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin, Paul Weber in San Antonio, and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop.
 
(Copyright 2011 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)
  










See archived 'Spotlight Rotator' stories » 
				
 




Reader Comments
From the editor: Many of you have expressed concerns about some of the harsh anonymous comments from readers. To remedy that, we are introducing new features. You can create your own blog, publish your news and share your photos with the community. Once you fill out a simple form and leave a verifiable e-mail address, you can set up your profile page. It will display all of your contributions and allow you to track issues and easily connect with others.We want our site to be a place where people discuss and debate ideas that foster stronger communities. We built this for you. Please take care of it. Tolerate broad thinking, but take action against obscene or hateful material. Make it a credible and safe place worth preserving and sharing.
















 
Please wait while we process your request


 
Please wait while we retrieve the user's information





Bio
Your bio is currently empty. Now is a great time to fill in your profile.
This profile is private.
This profile is only shared with friends.
This profile is under review.









We were unable to request friendship with this user.
We were unable to request friendship with this user. Are you logged in?
Your friendship request has been sent to this user.
We were unable to terminate friendship with this user.
We were unable to terminate friendship with this user. Are you logged in?
You are no longer friends with this user.
We were unable to ignore this user.
We were unable to ignore this user. Are you logged in?
This user is now ignored.
We were unable to stop ignoring this user.
We were unable to stop ignoring this user. Are you logged in?
This user is no longer ignored.
We encountered a problem recommending this user.
pluck_user_recommend_permission
You have recommended this user.







Type

Obscenity/VulgarityHate SpeechPersonal AttackAdvertising/SpamCopyright/PlagiarismOther



Comment(optional)


pluck_user_mp-abuse_too_long_err


Send


Cancel










Share your thoughts about this storyYou must be logged in to leave a comment. Login | Register

To leave a comment, you need to sign up.


Sign up


Log in









Please wait while we perform your request.



4 comments

Sort: 

Oldest to Newest
Newest to Oldest
Highest Score
Most Active





















Abuse Reported
Report Abuse




			 
		








Score:  -2


Name withheld


junglecat

9:31 AM on September 7, 2011

This comment is hidden because you have chosen to ignore junglecat.
Show DetailsHide Details

So President Pickled Pig Lips has approved some federal grants? Surprise, surprise!  He hates Texas. He just wants to get re-elected so he can keep taking expensive vacations on our nickel.






8 replies1 reply





8 replies1 reply




					Please wait while we perform your request.
				





















Abuse Reported
Report Abuse




			 
		








Score:  7


Name withheld


jonnoj

9:46 AM on September 7, 2011

This comment is hidden because you have chosen to ignore jonnoj.
Show DetailsHide Details

I am gonna forget politics for a minute and just pray for these folks for  a while...






1 replies1 reply





1 replies1 reply




					Please wait while we perform your request.
				





















Abuse Reported
Report Abuse




			 
		








Score:  2


Name withheld


snobunnyintx

9:45 PM on September 7, 2011

This comment is hidden because you have chosen to ignore snobunnyintx.
Show DetailsHide Details

Looks like an update on the fire became a forum for a political debate.






1 replies1 reply





1 replies1 reply




					Please wait while we perform your request.
				





















Abuse Reported
Report Abuse




			 
		








Score:  1


Name withheld


ohnotheydidnt

8:41 AM on September 8, 2011

This comment is hidden because you have chosen to ignore ohnotheydidnt.
Show DetailsHide Details

I keep looking at these pics and am in awe of the cars either driving towards it or parked...it would have me scared so bad and running in the opposite direction.  Bless their hearts..this is horrible!






0 replies1 reply





0 replies1 reply




					Please wait while we perform your request.
				










		 

	








Please wait while we file your abuse report.

Report Abuse



We're sorry. We were unable to report abuse at this time.

Type

Obscenity/VulgarityHate SpeechPersonal AttackAdvertising/SpamCopyright/PlagiarismOther



Comment(optional)




Send


Cancel










Please wait while we send the email.

Email This 



We're sorry, but the comment you are sending has been removed from the site.
We're sorry. We were unable to send the comment at this time.

To

Please specify a recipient.
You can only send messages to 5 addresses at a time.
The address "" is not valid.


Subject

Please specify a subject.


Comment(optional)




Send


Cancel









 E-Mail
 Delicious
 Digg
 Facebook
 FriendFeed
 LinkedIn
 MySpace


 Copy to Clipboard
 Reddit
 Slashdot
 StumbleUpon
 Tumblr
 Twitter
 Yahoo! Buzz






Copy to clipboard






Score


 vote upvotes up
 vote downvotes down




















 










WeatherSkyviewVideo Forecast

5 Day Forecast
Live Doppler Radar





 

ADVERTISEMENT 











Subscribe Now and Never Miss a Deal!	
Up to 70% OFF Your Favorite Restaurants, Spas and More







Poll






 


Gas Prices


Do you still monitor gas prices to find the cheapest in town?



 Not anymore, I've budgeted for the high costs



 I still look for the best bargain



 I never searched for cheap prices





Enter The Code To Vote




 




 







 

Event Calendar









EventsDiningVenues






Featured Events

Event Listings







Click for More EventsAdd Your Events


 

Find an Event












 

ADVERTISEMENT 






Local Business Directory





Name:








City:

All
BEAUMONT
CHINA
GROVES
HAMSHIRE
NEDERLAND
NOME
PORT ARTHUR
PORT NECHES
SABINE PASS




Featured Categories

Arts & Entertainment
Autos
Beauty & Wellness
Financial
Health Care
Home Improvement


Hotels & Lodging
Legal
Real Estate
Restaurant
Shopping
View All »








KFDM News on Facebook

National top videos




 



Click here to read or watch all of the health stories we report on 6 News Tonight




Track storms as they approach your neighborhood on our interactive radar map.




Leger's Restaurant Report Card




At Six Productions, our goal is to achieve results for your business with effective advertising and marketing solutions! Click Icon!




Click here to check out what's on the Southeast Texas CW


  






 










powered by

						        Search:

 
						Web						  
						 
						Site					


 






Archives
News Archives
Sports Archives
Movie Review Archives


Broadcast Services
CBS HDTV


Online Services
Newsletters/Alerts
Mobile Alerts FAQ
RSS Feeds 
Article Map


Related Sites
CBS.com

Interactive






Home |
			Contact Us |
			Site Map |
			Careers

Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Beaumont Directory


Freedom Communications, Inc.











