Texas wildfire's toll makes big jump | The Fort Worth Busniess Press, Fort Worth, TX 







View Mobile Version of this site
Contact Us | Newsletter Signup | Subscribe






News


BizTracker
 
Stocks
 
Arts and Culture
Briefs
Banking & Finance
Economic Development
Education & Training
Energy
Government
Health Care
Hospitality / Meetings / Events
Law
Marketing
Nonprofit
People
Real Estate
Restaurants
Retail
Small Business
Technology
Transportation



Opinion


Letters to the Editor
Opinion



Calendar


Calendar



Events


Purchase Event Tickets & Tables
 
Submit a Nomination for 40 under 40
 
 
CFO of the Year
Healthcare Heroes
40 Under 40
Top 100
Power Attorney
40 Under 40 Reunion
Great Women of Texas
Smart Moves
Shale Symposium



Weekend


Weekend



Photos


 target="_parent">2011 Top 100 Luncheon
2011 Power Attorney
2010 Top 100
Smart Moves
40 Under 40



Videos


Top Video
Business
Politics
Technology
Autos
Travel



Lists


Lists
Submit: Homebuilders
Submit: Employee Benefits
Submit: Woman Owned
       Businesses
Submit: PR/Advertising Firms
Submit: MBA Programs
Submit: Hotels With Banquet
        Facilities
Submit: Women In Law
Submit: Tourist Attractions
Submit: Waste Management
Submit: Appraisers
Submit: Urgent Care Centers
Submit: Property Tax Companies
Submit: Property Management
Submit: General Contractors
Submit: Great Women of Texas
Submit: Smart Moves



Media Kit


Locations to Purchase
Editorial Calendar
Media Kit














Large Type

Print













																						 » 					
		
				
				
				Fort Worth Business Press » 
					
		
				
				
																Top Stories | Fort Worth Business Press



September 8

Texas wildfire's toll makes big jump

CNN Wire Service
BASTROP, Texas (CNN) -- A huge wildfire raging near Austin has destroyed nearly 1,400 homes and is still spreading, officials said Thursday.

click image to enlarge
Edwina is comforted by her owner Patricia Frost as they await word on the fate of their home at the Batrop Convention Center. 
 
Credit: Joshua Rubin/CNN 
 

													Credit: Joshua Rubin/CNN 
												

Victoria Koenig, spokeswoman for the Texas Forest Service, said the Bastrop County fire has destroyed 1,368 homes -- more than double the estimate officials gave Wednesday.
Despite hopes that the fire would be largely contained by Wednesday night, it remained 30% contained Thursday morning, she said. About 34,000 acres have been destroyed.
The fire has killed at least two people. An elite search team is helping local officials scour the area for other potential victims.
At least 5,000 people evacuated the area, officials said.
The Bastrop fire is one of scores that have been burning across the drought-stricken state. Wildfires have been scorching Texas for nearly 300 days.
In just the past week, the Texas Forest Service has responded to 181 fires, Gov. Rick Perry said.
President Barack Obama called Perry to "express his concern for citizens of Texas impacted by the unprecedented fires."
The president assured the governor "that requests for additional assistance, including as recovery begins, would be quickly assessed," according to a White House statement.
Officials are expected to enlist the help of a DC-10 tanker to fight the blaze, but it cannot be used until Friday, CNN affiliate KXAN reported.
The plane, which can hold 12,000 gallons of retardant, has been fighting fires in California and has to take mandatory days off before it can be used, the affiliate reported.
The weather will bring "a sliver of hope in the next five to six days," said HLN meteorologist Bob Van Dillen. "Tropical Storm Nate over the Bay of Campeche may spread some rain to south-central Texas next week, but those chances seem slim at this point."
While the cause of the Bastrop fire remains unknown, officials in Leander, Texas, about 60 miles northwest of Bastrop, believe four teen arsonists were responsible for a smaller fire there this week that destroyed 11 homes and caused $1.4 million in damage.
In Camp Bullis, north of San Antonio, a new wildfire broke out Wednesday afternoon. Bexar County Fire Marshall spokeswoman Laura Jesse said at least 125 acres burned. CNN affiliate KSAT reported that the fire has been contained.
The fires leave heartbreaking scenes of destruction.
Jerry Hooten found little more than ashes when he returned to his home in Bastrop County.
"We ain't happy about it, but we're all alive," said Hooten, who is staying at an RV park outside the danger zone.
"I don't think it's registered in our brains that our house is gone and that, really, half of Bastrop is gone," said evacuee Claire Johnson.
-- CNN's Scott Thompson, Nicole Saidi and Jim Spellman contributed to this report.
 
Tweet














Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.















  
Great Women of Texas
  
CFO of the Year
  
HealthCare Heroes
  














Honoring women from the area for their accomplishments in business, civic and social contributions.














Recognizing CFOs who successfully navigates a company's financial future and are stewards for their organization.














In a field that presents constant challenges of numerous sorts, this annual event recognizes excellence in the medical community.










Archive Search

















   
Recently Commented
   
Most Viewed
   
Most Emailed
   










Creative Solutions marks first time on Top 100 list health care 
Alcon commits $4 billion for R&D, moves 100 jobs to area 
Starbucks CEO to Washington: We're cutting you off 









Kimbell acquires Poussin’s ‘Sacrament of Ordination’ for $24.3 million 


What's in Obama's stimulus plan?


Hudson resigns from TCC board










Party Painter


Nascent Northside


AUI merges with Centerpoint Builders


















Follow Us
 
   



Weather














News
Opinion

Calendar

Events

Weekend

Photos

Videos

Lists

Media Kit





© Copyright 2011  The Fort Worth Business Press. All Rights Reserved.
The Fort Worth Business Press 3509 Hulen Street, Suite 201, Fort Worth, TX 76102 Phone: 817-336-8300 Fax: 817-332-3038
The Fort Worth Business Net






