Fire, fire everywhere | Surviving the Modern World




Surviving the Modern World
bringing out the urban warrior in everyone



Home
About
Books & other Products
Survival resources
Contact
 



Tweet








Follow:
 














Fire, fire everywhere

Jackie Dana September 6, 2011 [0]  comments 

As anyone in Central Texas can tell you right now, there’s smoke in the air. In fact, Austin is all but surrounded by fires to the north, east, west and south, with a few that have been popping up in the city itself.
The biggest fire right now is in Bastrop, not far from where I used to live, and where I used to do most of my shopping. The small city has already seen 500+ homes destroyed, and latest reports indicate over 30,000 acres have been burned, with a large chunk of Bastrop State Park, an area known for the “lost pines” because of the gorgeous tall pine forest there.  (Click here to learn ways to donate to the fire victims.)
Fire crews from the entire region have been overwhelmed; the National Forest Service and multiple other federal agencies are stopping in.
The timing of the fires is a bit ironic, because just a week ago I had been discussing Hurricane Irene with friends. There were a few communities in the northeast that had been completely cut off from the surrounding towns due to roads and bridges being washed out; they had lost power and water service, and had no way to get food or other supplies into the area.
We talked about how prepping, in particular water and food storage, can help in situations like that, because then you can weather out the storm, so to speak. But for those of us in Texas, suffering the worst heat and drought in history, it’s hard to wrap your head around being cut off like that. Even more difficult would be to imagine a situation where you might have to evacuate due to weather concerns. The most we ever get here are ice storms, where you just shelter in place, or tornadoes, where you just have to cross your fingers that nothing happens to your home.
So while many people in the prepper community might have a bug out or go bag ready, for the average Austinite it’s difficult to imagine when such preparations really would be important.
And then the fires came. Thousands of people throughout the area have been forced from their homes, some with as little as ten minutes’ warning. Grab your pets, your documents, your valuables… and run.
The moral of the story is, don’t wait until it’s too late.
Plan ahead:

Have a bug out/evacuation location, both local and outside of the immediate vicinity, depending on the situation.
Make sure all of your family members, as well as close friends, know where you’ll go, so everyone knows how to find you. Also ensure your other family members all have easy access to transportation to that site in the event you can’t reach them.
Pack a bug out bag for each member of your family that includes clothing, essential documents, medications, tools, phone chargers, maps, food and water, and entertainment items; it’s also a good idea to have supplies in your car.
Have a plan for pets – ensure you have carriers/kennels for everyone, as well as food and water for them as well, and know where you’ll take them if you have to leave.
Keep all your documents and other essential information in a safe but accessible location. Include a list of phone numbers and addresses of people you may need to rely on in an emergency – don’t rely only on your cell phone for this information.

Be prepared:

Texas Prepares – great tools for deciding what you need for yourself and your family.
What would you pack if you had to evacuate? – featuring a family that had to evacuate their home due to the fires
What should you bring if you need to evacuate? – includes a list from the Texas Department of State Health Services
Ready.gov – a site similar to Texas Prepares but from FEMA.

Sharing is good karma:EmailPrintFacebookReddit 

								This entry was posted in Prepping, Survival, Urban skills. Bookmark the permalink.															



← Mind your beeswax
Bastrop is burning →





Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 









Support this site! 

Recommended Products 

Become a sponsor! Like what you see here? Contact us about sponsoring Surviving the Modern World!
  Recent Posts 
Bastrop is burning
Fire, fire everywhere
Mind your beeswax
Survival lessons in songs
Your goose (and rabbit) are cooked
Herbal First Aid Kit: Liniments
Never Quite Ready
Clouds in my coffee

Topics 
Coexisting with nature

Gardening and permaculture

General

Healthy lifestyle

Herbology

Homesteading

Money savers

Prepping

Primitive/wilderness skills

Survival

Sustainable food

Urban skills


Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011

Related sites

Sustainable Food Center
The Human Path
The Human Path – Podcasts
The Survival Podcast


Find us on Facebook!  


 


Home
Primitive skills
Homesteading
Urban skills
Herbology
Prepping
Healthy lifestyle
Sustainable food
Survival
 


						Unless otherwise attributed, all materials on this site are copyright © 2011 by Surviving the Modern World. Site by Getting Dirty Designs.com.					


TravelBlogger Theme developed by FreeTravelWebsiteTemplates.com | Powered by WordPress 









Switch to our mobile site













Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



