lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2007 » July






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Tuesday, July 31, 2007
Matt Cavotta

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:29 am 
 

According to his brief bio, illustrator Matt Cavotta grew up playing games like Scrabble, Balderdash and Boggle, grew into a fascination with fantasy games like Dungeons and Dragons and Magic: The Gathering, and carried his love of gaming into a career largely focused on illustrations for games.
Notably, his work for the Magic: The Gathering card based series and his magazine covers for Dungeon and Dragon  show a splendiferous range of grotesque and sometimes gruesome images of fantasy themes. His magical animals, wizards, trolls, dragons, monsters and other bizarre characters are rendered with a strong sense of solidity, texture and atmosphere, which makes them all the more fun. Cavotta uses a strong range of value and high chroma palette to give his images a feeling of intensity and drama.
Unfortunately, the images reproduced on Cavotta’s site are inexplicably small. I came across a nice big reproduction of one of his pieces in a Spectrum collection and was impressed with it at the size of a full page. I was subsequently disappointed that the images on his site are not larger. The good news is that there are quite a few images shown, so you can get an idea of the breadth of Cavotta’s work, if not the depth. 
The bad news is that you’ll need to be patient and perseverant to see many of them because navigation is a bit awkward, requiring you to click and click back to view each image. There’s also no obvious indication that the button labeled “Cavotta Home” at the top of the pages is actually a drop-down menu for the other site sections.
There is a menu at the page top for “Other Artists” which leads to a circle of sites of several artists with whom Cavotta apparently shares the masthead of “Daydream Graphics” (including Adam Rex, who I’ve previously profiled).
Some of Cavotta’s more imaginative images start to edge out past the traditional subject treatments for fantasy illustration into territory usually associated with fantastic or visionary gallery art, and the rendering of horns and scaly skin on his dragons and other fantasy animals make me think he would be interesting as a paleo artist. 
I know that that his work for Magic: The Gathering is meant to be reproduced at a relatively small size on the cards (list here), but some of his larger format work is for magazine covers, and all of it is so rich in detail  that I think it’s really unfortunate that he hasn’t reproduced at least a few pieces on his site at a larger size.
 


Link: www.daydream-graphics.com/artists/cavotta/main.asp
Articles by Cavotta on Wizards of the Coast

Posted in:  Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   Comments »


Monday, July 30, 2007
Claes Oldenburg

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:32 am 
 

If you’ve been following lines and colors for the last month or so, you know I’ve been using the PBS broadcast on Monday nights of Simon Schama’s The Power of Art as a springboard for posts about related painters. Tonight’s show, however, is about Mark Rothko. Even though I occasionally like Rothko’s early Miro-like fantasies, and the later paintings of big, rough edged rectangles of color for which he is most known, I find it hard to generate any enthusiasm about him. 
I’m resisting the temptation to write an entire post expressing my dumbfounded amazement at his inclusion with the great painters and sculptors that have been the other subjects of Schama’s series; which I’ve likened to doing a special on Mozart, Bach, Beethoven and Brahams and tossing in Axl Rose. 
I’ve also mercifully decided against one of my acerbic rants about post-war modernism. Instead I thought “Why not write about a post-war modernist that I actually do like?” Though that’s a small group, the first one to pop into my mind was Claes Oldenburg, a post-war modernist whose work puts a genuine smile on my face, not simply one of bemusement.
In the midst of a wave of modernist painters who took themselves way too seriously (e.g. Rothko), Oldenburg was a breath of fresh air. His giant renditions of ordinary objects are at once hilarious and thought-provoking. 
Oldenburg is primarily known for his large scale outdoor sculptures, usually of mundane objects that have been recreated at many times their original size and placed out of context not only by proportion and by being displayed in public spaces, but also by arrangement in unique and fun ways; like a sculpture of giant handlebars, partially visible so as to suggest a Buried Bicycle, a giant Dropped Bowl that has spilled 6-foot long apple slices and peels, or a half sunken bowling ball and an arrangement of 24 ft long Flying Pins.
One of the best gifts an artist can bestow on the viewer is to make that miraculous connection in the brain that allows you to see the world, or some small part of it, with fresh eyes. 
Have you really looked at that pencil eraser on your desk? Have you noticed what that button on your dresser really looks like? Did you pay attention to the way your garden hose curled when you last walked by it?
Art that takes things out of their ordinary context, from Marcel Duchamp’s signed urinal and upturned bicycle wheel in a stool, to the work of the pop artists of the sixties, with whom Oldenburg is loosely associated, utilizes the juxtaposition of ordinary objects with unusual settings, sizes or presentations to make us stop and shift our perceptions; and can often, particularly in the case of Oldenburg, be hilarious.
Oldenburg’s smaller scale indoor works are frequently of commonplace objects that appear to be melting or soft. You can see some of his large scale works on the web site he shares with his wife and collaborator, sculptor Coosje van Bruggen, and some preliminary drawings and concepts on Ciudad de la pintura.
There was a time when I was frequently on the University of Pennsylvania campus, and I would often walk by the University Library, outside of which was Oldenburg’s Split Button (also here), a 16 foot wide white enameled aluminum sculpture of a broken button, that never failed to make me smile. (In a hilarious send-up of the story behind Alexander Stirling Calder’s Swann Fountain in Logan Circle, Oldenberg said of the button: “The Split represents the Schuylkill. It divides the button into four parts–for William Penn’s original Philadelphia squares.” — For more on Calder, see my post on his son, Alexander Calder.)
The next year I had occasion to frequently walk down 15th Street in Philadelphia, near City Hall, and past Oldenburg’s Clothespin (also here and here), a stainless steel representation of the familiar object that is 45 feet high and has over the years acquired a patina of rust, making it even more interesting. Anyone who lives or works in Center City Philadelphia knows it as simply “The Clothespin”, whether they’re aware of Oldenburg or not. 
It’s hard to look at something like that, poised against he beautiful tower of City Hall with its Alexander Milne Calder sculptures, and the oh-so-serious and businesslike skyscrapers of Center Square Plaza, and not want to chuckle, give a mental thumbs-up and think. “OK, Claes!”
 


Link: Official site of Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Rruggen, main gallery
Ciudad de la pintura - drawings (ES)
El Poder de la Palabra (ES)
USC Annenberg
Illustrated article on ArtNetWeb
Article on Happenings
Article on Guggenheim Museum
Google image search
Artcyclopedia (links and resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Sculpture & Dimensional   |   18 Comments »


Sunday, July 29, 2007
Colin Page

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:30 pm 
 


I was really glad that I caught a show of paintings by Maine artist Colin Page at the F.A.N. Gallery here in Philadelphia. Yesterday was the last day of the show and I managed to fit it into my schedule to drop by the gallery. It was evidently a successful show as all but two of the paintings were marked as sold. (Personally, I think his work was underpriced.)
Page lives in Maine, but apparently has some Philadelphia connection. In addition to being represented by a gallery here, a number of his paintings, particularly those in this show, are of Philadelphia scenes.   
Page has a loose, open style with lots of juicy brushstrokes and rich splashes of color defining his forms. What is unfortunately difficult to see in the relatively small images posted on his site, and on the sites of the galleries in Maine and Philadelphia that represent him, are the textured brushstrokes and areas of rough blending and broken color that make the surface of his paintings richly textured. (The recent images on the F.A.N. gallery site are a bit larger.)
Though he occasionally paints landscapes, particularly of rocky coastal scenes in Maine, he more often paints cityscapes, townscapes and interiors, finding his compositions in the geometry of buildings and objects as well as in the negative spaces they define.
Page has a great talent for simplifying his compositions to just the right degree to leave them strongly graphic but visually rich. He leaves the surfaces of his subjects briefly noted, instead letting the application of the areas of paint provide visual as well as physical texture. 
You’ll find a variety of his work on his own site and the three galleries listed below.
[Links and suggestion courtesy of Deirdre Tessmann and Elek Hendrickson]


Link: www.colinpagepaintings.com
F.A.N. Gallery, Philadelphia
Bio and gallery at Camden Falls Gallery, Camden, Maine
Oyster Gallery, Portland, Maine

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   7 Comments »


Saturday, July 28, 2007
Willy Pogany’s Art of Drawing

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:56 am 
 


When I wrote my post about “Golden Age” illustrator Willy Pogany in June, I was disappointed that I couldn’t find much in the way of online examples form his terrific drawing instruction book, The Art of Drawing.
Well Stephen Worth and the good folks at the ASIFA-Hollywood Animation Archive, as part of their continuing campaign to make the web an even more wondrous and useful place, have dropped another gem on us. They’ve posted a 17 page taste of figure drawing instruction from Willy Pogany’s Drawing Lessons.
I’m a little unclear whether the currently available The Art of Drawing is a retitled version of Drawing Lessons, or if they simply share a lot of common material. Little matter, in that The Art of Drawing is easily available and is terrific.
This is not so much a book on drawing the figure from life in a direct “draw what you see” way, as it is in the constructive tradition of teachers like Andrew Loomis and George Bridgeman, who teach how to construct the figure through an understanding of anatomy, perspective and the perception of the underlying solid geometry of living forms.
As such, it belongs, along with books by Loomis, Bridgeman and Walt Reed, on the reference shelf of any artist who works with constructing figures from the imagination. In particular this means comic book artists and illustrators; though any artists who want a better feeling of solidity and three dimensional reality to their figures would benefit from the study of all of these instructors.
The ASIFA excerpt from the book consists of 17 beautiful high-resoultion scans that are reproduced large enough (approximately 1200 x 1500) to get a real feeling for the solid draftsmanship and fresh, confident linework in Pogany’s drawings. The actual book is over 125 pages and remarkably inexpensive.
While you’re at the ASIFA Animation Archive, be sure to check out some of the other amazing resources on the site, including great articles on drawing instruction, Golden Age illustrators, cartoons and many other topics in addition to animation. (Major time-sink warning)


Link: Willy Pogany's Drawing Lessons excerpt on ASIFA blog
The Art of Drawing (Amazon link)

Posted in:  Drawing,Tools and Techniques   |   2 Comments »


Friday, July 27, 2007
Martina Hoffmann

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:33 am 
 


Visionary artist Martina Hoffmann was born in Germany, grew up in Cameroon in West Africa, and now lives in Spain with her husband, artist Robert Venosa, who I profiled last week.
She paints intricate, detailed works inspired by dreams and the unconscious, which makes it appropriate to call her work surreal, in spite of how picky I can be about the indiscriminate use of that term.  Her pieces often involve themes of fertility, pregnancy, birth and other invocations of the universal feminine, as well as suggestions of altered stares of consciousness or spiritual awakening.
She shares with Venosa a kinship to the liquid-reality visions of Surrealists Yves Tanguy, Max Ernst and Dali, and a fascination with the combination of imagined forms with traditional landscape elements. In her case there is also often an incorporation of intricate patterns, suggestive of radiant spiritual or biological energy, surrounding, or emanating  from, living things, that brings to mind the work of Alex Grey. 
Hofffmann also has a fascinating series of portraits, in which there is a suggestion of other-worldliness or spitiruality to the backgrounds and settings.
There is a gallery of her work on the beinArt Surreal Art Collective; and along with Venosa, she is one of the artists featured in their new collection Metamorphosis, which I wrote about in this post.
There is also a gallery of her work on the Society for the Art of Imagination, along with a bio and interview.
Addendum: I received a notice that Martina Hoffmann and Robert Venosa are conducting a series of workshops on Visionary Painting, the latest of which will be held this November 24th to 30th in Boulder, Colorado.


Link: www.martinahoffmann.com
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Society for Art of Imagination with bio

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Thursday, July 26, 2007
Simon Bartram

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:14 am 
 


Though he does other advertising and editorial illustration, U.K. illustrator Simon Bartram is noted for a series of children’s books that he both wrote and illustrated: Watch out for Sprouts, Dougal’s Deep Sea Diary (image above, right) and Man on the Moon (a day in the life of Bob) (above, left).
He has also illustrated children’s books for other authors, including Pumpkin Moon by Tim Preston, A Christmas Wish by Marcus Sedgwick and Night and the Candlemaker by Wolfgang Somary.
Bartram’s children’s book illustrations often have characters with smallish heads and overlarge hands, and are painted with a kind of textured solidity that gives the exaggerated images a sort of nice, cheery goofiness. That, combined with backgrounds and scenes loaded with lots of objects and colorful details, provides a rich smorgasbord of shapes, colors and textures to satisfy the visual appetites of kids and adults alike. 
It’s easy to overlook the fact that illustrations for children’s books aimed at younger kids must appeal to both the kids and the adults, who need to remain amused themselves through repeated readings. 
Though Bartram doesn’t appear to have a web site, he has a portfolio on the site of his rep, ArenaWorks and another on the SAA Illustration Hub.


Link: Simon Bartram ortfolio on ArenaWorks
Portfolio on SAA Illustration Hub
Simon Bartram books and short bio on Templar Publishing
Bio on jrank.org

Posted in:  Illustration   |   Comments »


Wednesday, July 25, 2007
How to Paint a Portrait (David R. Darrow)

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:17 am 
 


Here’s an interesting take on the process of painting a portrait – from the subjects point of view. Geoff Bouvier had his portrait painted by artist David R. Darrow, who I profiled previously in the context of one of my earliest reports on the practice of creating a “painting a day” and a later related post on the Daily Painters Guild.
Darrow worked for many years as an illustrator, but has since moved into gallery painting and commissioned portraits. He received his formal training in illustration at the Art Center College of Design and later had the opportunity to study figure drawing with Fred Fixler. 
Darrow has an immediate, painterly style and seems to revel in the physicality of the paint, with lots of luxurious brushstrokes in his subjects and broad swipes of textured color in his backgrounds. 
Darrow has galleries on his site of figure paintings, charcoal sketches, his “Everyday Paintings” and a selection of recent works. He also has a page of information on how he approaches commissions, a subject that is explored in much more detail by subject Geoff Bouvier in a five page article he wrote for the San Diego Reader in June. 
Darrow has since posted the article on his web site, filled out with larger images and some annotations and comments on the process.
The intention to write the article was there from the start, and the result is a talkative process in which Geoff asks Darrow about his methods in addition to observing them.
Although he takes some photographs for reference, Darrow is working from life in a traditional process that starts with a color sketch, then works from a charcoal drawing through the finished painting. 
It’s enlightening to get the impressions of both the sitter and the artist on what is generally a non-verbal process. In the course of the article both reveal their thoughts about expectations, the likeness, the artist’s intention and the sequence of events in the course of painting a portrait.


Link: How to Paint a Portrait by Geoff Bouvier (from San Diego Reader, annotated by David Darrow)
www.darrowart.com/
My Thoughts Exactly (Darrow's blog)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Tools and Techniques   |   7 Comments »


Tuesday, July 24, 2007
Glen Angus

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:02 pm 
 


It’s always particularly sad when my first post about an artist is to mark their untimely passing.
Glen Angus was talented illustrator, concept artist, designer and storyboard artist. He died suddenly last Thursday night.
Angus was a Senior Artist and major contributor to game developer Raven Software and there is a tribute page posted on their site, which includes an address for a memorial fund for his family. 
His clients also included Wizards of the Coast, for which he created imaginative and fun illustrations for their popular Magic: The Gathering collectable card game.
His site includes galleries of paintings, pencil sketches, concept designs, storyboards and illustrations. The “For the Young at Heart” section includes children’s book illustrations.
His portfolio on CGSociety  includes his delightful illustrations for a proposed children’s book Filling Valhalla as well as numerous drawings and illustrations.
There is page of his “Victory Gals” project on ConceptArt.org, in which he works in modern digital painting techniques in Photoshop and Painter in a series of themed images  that harkens back to WWII aviation posters (image above, left).
The last part of Angus’s life was consumed with his efforts to secure treatment for his two year old son, Teddy, who was diagnosed with autism in December of 2006.
Children with autism respond to early intervention, but in many states, like Angus’ home state of Wisconsin, there is an unfortunately long waiting list for aid in acquiring the expensive therapy; and therapy is often critically delayed through periods when it could be of the most benefit to the child.
As part of his effort to change this and the unhelpful current policies of most medical insurance companies, both for his own son and other children, Angus created poster with his illustration of his son as he pictured him, as child trapped inside the barriers of his own mind, without voice (image above, right).
All of the interior pages on Angus’s site are now prefaced with his explanation of the situation, a large version of the poster image and some information on contacting the governor’s office in his state. 
I don’t know much about autism, but I’ve tried to provide a couple of jumping off points for information in the links below, as well as a list of links to pages and galleries with Angus’ artwork. It’s now up to others to carry on his fight.
Addendum: The CGSociety has posted an extensive tribute page for Glen Angus.
[Information and links courtesy of Charles Morrow and "Dominus Elf"]


Link: http://gangus.net/
Portfolio on GCSociety
Glen Angus Victory Gals page on ConceptArt.org
Glen Angus tribute page on Raven Software
Tribute page on ConceptArt.org
Glen's ConceptArt.org poster for Teddy page
Wisconsin Govenor's office contact page (see http://gangus.net/pipe.htm for info)
Wikipedia entry on Autism
Autism links on Open Directory

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Monday, July 23, 2007
J.M.W. Turner

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:34 am 
 


Joseph Mallord William Turner is often mentioned in the same breath as John Constable, as they were the two preeminent English landscape painters of the Romantic era, and two of the most important landscape painters period. 
In the canons of modern art criticism, Turner is considered more important. His search for atmospheric effects and the emotional drama of color, which led to dramatic canvasses roiling with waves and clouds, are seen as a precursor to Impressionism and Modernism, and we all know that post WWII Modernism is the pinnacle of artistic achievement to which the previous 2000 years were a mere warm-up (he said, while rolling his eyes and making a rude gesture).
I like Turner; his work can be striking, dramatic, and dazzling; but I have to say that I find Constable just as interesting, more in fact; and I find more powerful antecedents to Impressionism in Courbet and, in particular, Corot (though Turner certainly set the stage for Whistler’s nocturnes). I just don’t see Turner as quite the turning point (if you’ll excuse the phrase) in the history of art that he gets credit for in the standard texts. 
It will be interesting to see what Simon Schama has to say in tonight’s Power of Art (10pm on many PBS stations here in the U.S.), though somehow I think he will take the Modernist view of assigning Turner pivotal importance in the path to Modernism.
It might be helpful to look at Turner’s sources and influences. Constable apparently wasn’t one of them; reportedly Constable was interested in Turner’s work, but not the other way around (though there’s very little influence passed in either direction between them). You can see precedent for Turner’s great washes of sky and color in Claude Lorrain’s volumetric spaces bathed in light. Both Turner and Constable were probably influenced by Gainsborough, and perhaps even Caspar David Friederich.
Turner’s early work was richly detailed, his later paintings washed in color. In the middle the two blended, as in the history painting above, Dido Building Carthage, which I’ll offer in contrast to Slave Traders Throwing the Dead and Dying into the Sea – The Typhoon Approaches, the painting Schama will be focusing on. 
Turner considered Dido Building Carthage his greatest work, and reportedly indicated in the first draft of his will that he wanted to be wrapped in the canvas when he was buried. He eventually thought better of that and donated the work to the National Gallery in London, apparently with the stipulation that it be displayed next to a seascape by Claude Lorrain that he found particularly inspiring.


Link: J.W.M. Turner on Power of Art
Bio and images Webmuseum
Humanities Web
CGFA
ARC (some high-res)
Athenaeum
Ciudad de la pintura (ES)
Turner wallpapers (hi-res) on Rasiel.com
Bio and images on Artchive
Turner at National Gallery (London)
Turner and Constablecomparison from V&A Museum
Turner & Constable at National Gallery (Smithsonian)
Artcyclopedia (links)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Sunday, July 22, 2007
Colin Stimpson

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:51 am 
 


U.K illustrator and concept artist Colin Stimpson lists early influences that include great Edwardian illustrators like Edmund Dulac and Arthur Rackham. He carries those influences into his snappy, nicely textured illustrations and a richly imaginative rendering style for his concept art and color guides for animated films. 
Stimpson has worked on a number of Disney films like Hercules, Tinkerbell, The Hunchback of Notre Dame and The Emperor’s New Groove, for which he served as art director.
His web site has a gallery of his animation work that includes color guides and concept paintings for several of those projects. Unfortunately, the color guides in particular are reproduced way too small to get a good look at them. The most interesting work in his animation galleries is a series of beautiful monochromatic images for Kronk’s New Groove. These are imaginative and beautifully realized and have a wonderful sense of scale. The tone renderings have a dark to light drama that would be difficult to achieve in color.
In 2004 Stimpson returned to illustration when asked to illustrate a children’s book called The Poison Diaries for the Duchess of Northumberland. The resulting illustrations (image above) are the other highlight of Stimpson’s online portfolio. Again, his works in monochrome are outstanding in their subtle use of value and texture. There are also color illustrations associated with the book, but the tone images are just a treat.
[Link courtesy of Keith Holt]
www.colinstimpson.com/

Posted in:  Illustration   |   1 Comment »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  11 hours ago Watercolor artist Keiko Tanabe's wonderful evocations of Japan, China, Europe and the US: http://t.co/3Gr154T New Lines and Colors post.  2011/09/08 Into the Pixel 2011, showcase of video game art: http://t.co/HC6vDzC New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/08


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






