6 Appetizers with more calories than an entree - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to SchoolFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty


Trending Now»Weight WatchersJessica SimpsonFamily budgetsAli LohanInfidelity



















6 Appetizers with more calories than an entreePrevention – Wed, 7 Sep, 2011 3:09 PM EDT


 
 
 
When you sit down in a restaurant and order an app, you don’t expect it to equal or exceed the calories in a main meal. Unfortunately, many popular appetizers contain astronomically more calories, fat, and sodium than you should consume or the day, let alone in your pre-entrée nosh. What’s worse is that apps tend to be a shared experience, with three-or-more split between everyone at the table, so it’s easy to lose track of how much you actually eat. Our advice? When you’re dining out, skip the apps in favor of a small green salad and recreate these perennial favorites at home for a fraction of the calories and fat. 
6 Simple Swaps That Cut Calories

1. Stuffed Jalapeno Poppers These spicy stuffed poppers not only come at a high heat, they also come at a steep caloric cost. One plateful of these peppers tallies over 1,900 calories, 135 g of fat, and over 6,000 mg of sodium! (Yes, that’s right 6,000 mg of sodium.) You could have ordered 9 chicken enchiladas and still saved 36 g of fat and 2,000 mg of sodium.
Make it Yourself: Spicy Jalapeno Salsa We love spicy food: Not only does it pack a whole lot of flavor, the capsaicin found in chiles are known to kick your metabolism into high gear. Opt for this fiery jalapeno salsa instead of the fattening poppers: This version uses chili powder as well as jalapeno peppers to give this sauce a zesty punch. Plus, it amounts to under 10 calories per serving. 
2. Boneless Buffalo Wings With Blue Cheese Stop trying to kid yourself that the celery stalk that comes with the basket of wings makes this starter a healthy choice: One order of these saucy snackers amounts to almost 1,500 calories and 4,590 mg of sodium. That’s the salt equivalent of gorging on over 2 large bags of potato chips before your main entrée.
Make it Yourself: Waistline-Friendly Buffalo Wings These wings have all the qualities you love—smoky and fiery chicken coated with a finger-licking-good sauce—but they come with a fraction of  the calories, fat, and sodium. One serving of these has less than 220 calories and nearly a 10th of the sodium. 
3. Stuffed Potato Skins While potato skins are not regarded as a typical healthy choice, these “loaded” appetizers may be far worse than you anticipated. The boat-like munchies are usually brimming with high-calorie and high-fat ingredients like sour cream, bacon, and a medley of melty cheeses, but all that indulgence comes at a price: One plate of these is 2,070 calories. It’s also got 135 g of fat, the equivalent of over a dozen chocolate donuts.
Make it Yourself: Spicy Potato Skins Baked potato? Check. Sour cream? Check. Cheddar? Check. Bacon? Yup, we’ve got that too. These creamy and delicious potato skins have every element of classic stuffed potato skins, plus a few added extras (like some chile peppers), but they have less than a fifth of the caloric cost. 

4. Guacamole And Chips We absolutely love avocado: It’s got a rich, buttery taste, and it’s packed with belly-flattening MUFAs. Unfortunately, not all guacs are created equal. Some restaurant versions really pack on the calories and salt—one platter of chips and dip could amount to close to 1,400 calories and 84 g of fat, not to mention over 2,000 mg of sodium. 
Make It Yourself: Guiltless Guacamole This unique recipe for guacamole cuts calories, fat, and sodium with one simple (and yummy) swap. This version is not only packed with MUFAs, but it’s brimming with vitamin A as well as folate. 
WIN: Kick-Start Your Weight Loss With Jenny Craig

5. Beef Nachos  It’s hard to resist the tempting call of layers of tortilla chips, melted nacho cheese, onions, peppers, and juicy beef. But you would be all the wiser to stray from this fattening app tower: One plate has 1,700 calories and over 3,500 mg of sodium.
Make it Yourself: Cheesy Nachos Hold the beef with your nachos: That simple skip will cut a ton of calories, and you won’t be left wondering, “Where’s the beef?” This recipe, complete with blue corn chips and a layer of cheese, comes in under 250 calories per serving. 
6. Chicken Strips Ordering an individually sized chicken appetizer may make you believe that you are playing it safe when it comes to keeping your eye on your waistline. Think again. A single serving of sesame chicken strips amounts to more than half of your day’s calories and over 2,600 mg of salt.
Make it Yourself: Parmesan Chicken Strips Try these breaded Parmesan chicken strips instead: They’ve got that scrumptious crunch and a rich, cheesy coating with one plateful tallying up to a mere 167 calories.  Is Your Chicken Packing On The Pounds?

More from Prevention
4 Slimming Restaurant Meals 
Easy Ways To Stay Full All Day
8 Expert Weight-Loss Tips
 






All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        20 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













cricripet
49 seconds ago

Prevention is in urgent need of a copy editor! Apps, "sodium than you should consume or the day", guacs...poor English language!




 








Nils
41 minutes ago

I honestly hate these "health" articles written by Yahoo on the foods we shouldn't eat. Anyone can tell by looking at the menu what has more calories than other foods. Salads win over fries as a side dish and so on. But all this kind of knowledge would change depending on what's in the salad. Plus, eating out has always been known to be more fatty and unhealthy. It's not even news anymore. I don't know about other people but when I eat out, who gives a fck about the calories? I am not one who eats out often and to look into the calories of the foods I order takes away the joy of eating out. Girls and now even boys are under tremendous pressure at school about their weights. I have seen 10 year old girs wanting to lose weight when all they should be worried about at that age is to have fun! It's really article like these that makes them believe they are fat and need to lose the weight. Please Yahoo, lose the articles.




 








Doris
about an hour ago

Good to know when eating out




 








cyberdad1950
about an hour ago

Sperm has no calories.




 








Richard
3 hours ago

It's the carbs you need to watch - always has been and always will be and unlike dumb articles like this there is real science behind it.  Carbs good or bad - make you fat.  Sugar makes you fat.  Calories from foods low in carbs will NOT make you fat.  You can eat 20 steaks in a day and you won't gain weight.  Whether you ate 10,000 calories worth and you sit on your butt all day - you will NOT gain weight.  Even the "so-called" anti-Atkins dieticians all now have diets out that basically rip it off almost entirely.  It's comical.  Eat greens, eat berries, eat meat - you will be skinny - avoid everything else: anything corn, bread or potato based - you can live to 100 never eating a grain of any kind.  Oh and you'll never get diabetes on a high protein low carb diet - never.  The cure for diabetes is right there - more meat less bread.  Avoid nitrates in meat though - and this is sometimes tough with the rubbish most stores sell.  Trying to find no nitrate bacon is no easy task.




 








misslynn
4 hours ago

wow, so this tabloid still caters to outdated, debunked dogma of calorie counting, and "fat is bad for you, salt is bad for you". 
I guess it goes with business, yahoo is not doing too well, so they can't afford qualified nutritionists, or at least ones who may be willing to update their knowledge once in a while




 








BAR
9 hours ago

i love avocado!!!! with whole fat yogurt and unpastuiezed local honey and ice in a blender .... this nutritious combination can hold me over for many hours and make me forget that i have to eat cause its so good and healthy and yummy and rich ... yum!!!




 








Chelsea
9 hours ago

Wow what useful links, they take you to a site trying to get you to subscribe to a magazine or join Jenny Craig.




 








wendimac
10 hours ago

Buffalo wings with blue cheese?  I've got to try that one...




 








Yoda
10 hours ago

The chicken wings looks yummy...




 









12 hours ago

the eat at home options are great..for when you are eating at home...but when you are out..well you are at the mercy of the restaurant.  A little bit of indulgence is not a bad thing.....but is good to be mindful.  Frankly I am more concerned about the salt content in those foods than the fat and calories.........you can compensate for those things by cutting back on them at other meals.............but that much salt....what do you do?




 








Miriam
13 hours ago

SHIT i had a whole plate of potato skin with melted cheese and bacon with sour cream to myself because my friend didnt like it :/




 








M
13 hours ago

What a waste of space and time. I eat what I want when I want and I'm not going to have a bunch of tree hugging a$$holes tell me what to do. I have one life to live I'm going to live it for me and not some jerk thats trying to make a living by dictating what others should or shouldn't eat.




 








Lisa
14 hours ago

Make-it-yourself, good-for-you guacamole doesn't need all that superfluous crap in it.  A mashed avocado, a tsp of chopped onion, a Tbsp of chopped tomato, a finely-diced 1/4 - 1/2 habanero or jalapeno pepper (seeded), the juice of 1/2 a lime, and salt and pepper to taste.  Mix it together and eat it.




 








Miss Opinion
14 hours ago

Obviously.




 








rahwenn
14 hours ago

*sigh*....these articles.
I mean, yes, if you ate these daily (or hell, even a few times a week) there would be a problem. Now, if you eat a decent diet, get your recomended (or above ) excercise and THEN choose to indulge once in a while~where is the harm?
Absolutely, these options shouldnt be part of an everyday meal plan~but I'm starting to think this columnist must live a boring life, always counting every last calorie. I mean honestly, you're out for dinner with friends, everyone wants to share an appy, are you supposed to say " no....no, lets not have potato skins~we can just leave and I'll make some at home"?

that said....who eats an entire appy plate themselves? Any time I've dined, appys were for sharing, never even considered ordering one and eating the whole thing.....




 








Wendy W
14 hours ago

I love nobashi prawns, have no idea what the calorie count is and quite frankly don't care. I don't eat out that often and if I do go to the restaurant that serves them I dont always order them or an appetizer at all for that matter. ...On the odd time that I do order them. I eat them guilt-free and with gusto. I think moderation is the key and I also think that it is ok to indulge now and then.




 








DEE...
14 hours ago

fill up on salads ! Fruit !




 








asdgag
14 hours ago

who eats Boneless Buffalo Wings With Blue Cheese? stuffed potato skins? you gotta be a lard a$$ to eat those foods




 








Ralph-Thomas
15 hours ago

liek totally!!!11 i like my apps to be lean liek my bodyyY!!!! .. omfg.. get rid of her, she IS so annoying, NOBODY rreally talks.. even less writes like that naturally.. i mean, how can u fucking WRITE with a dumb blonde barbie tone.. i thought it was UNPOSSIBLE SQUEEEEEEE!








 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …
Celebrities who were bullied as kids

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesThreesomes And GirlfriendsAskmen - 7 hours agoBargain Saturday: 6 Ways to Fake a HeadboardHGTV - 21 hours agoEmpathy In RelationshipsAskmen - Sat, 10 Sep, 2011 12:00 AM EDTShame plates: Is this fat-shaming dinnerware funny or troubling?Shine - Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 2:21 PM EDTToast to a long life! One drink a day is good for womenShine - Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 2:15 PM EDT

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play VideoStudents Who Shared 9/11 With  …
Play Video9/11 Babies: 10 Years Later
Play VideoBoosting Your Immune System
Play Video'Intervention Canada' tackles impacts …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 40prevnext
6.7-magnitude quake hits Vancouver Island
Will and Kate's favourite Canadian spot
Ponytail costs athlete a championship
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
Five photos you should not post online















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending NowWeight WatchersJessica SimpsonFamily budgetsAli LohanInfidelity














                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















