Teens sought for arson over Texas wildfire | World Info Hub where the world gets its newsWorld Info Hub where the world gets its news  |  Teens sought for arson over Texas wildfire



World Info Hub where the world gets its news






Search




Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
HomeBacklinksBreaking NewsCasey Anthony UpdatesContact UsDonate To World Info HubForumLegal Agreementtexas wildfiresWorldinfohub.net on YoutubeAbout UsCopyright Notice






Post navigation
← Previous
Next →



Teens sought for arson over Texas wildfire

Posted on September 7, 2011  by  worldinfohub 








        Police in Texas were hunting three teenagers after a wildfire caused $1.4 million in damage in an Austin suburb, officials said.
    




The blaze destroyed nearly a dozen homes and caused the evacuations of 500 people in Leander, according to residents and media reports. Investigators were treating the wildfire as arson. 
Dawn Camp, 33, a fire evacuee from Leander near the Austin city limits, hadn’t heard the phone ring and didn’t know it was time to flee her home until she smelled smoke and walked out the front door to see her neighbor’s home burning. 
“Fire was raining down on my yard,” she said. 



        Story: Rising death toll in Texas wildfires


She grabbed her children, put them in the car, and started down the road. A block later, she jumped out and gave the keys to her 18-year-old daughter, who spirited her younger siblings, ages 8 and 10, to their great-grandmother’s house. 
Camp then walked home to coax her cats, Bugbite and Moonshine, out of the house. But police were in her yard. 
“They wouldn’t let me back in,” she said, standing outside a shelter at Rouse High School in Leander. Walking along a main street through the quiet subdivision, Camp said the smoke was so thick she couldn’t see or breathe. 




    Slideshow: Wildfires scorch Texas  (on this page)

A passerby picked her up, and she rejoined her family. Later, a relieved Camp reported that she was able to see her house — and both the home and the cats were fine. 
“I saw some houses that were burned, but our little half of the street was fine,” Camp said. The cats “were thirsty, but they were wonderful.” 
The wildfire in Leander had been extinguished by Tuesday afternoon.
There were also signs that one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history in the area of Bastrop, near Austin, was slowing thanks in part to calming winds. 
But stretched-thin firefighting crews were still trying to get a handle on the blaze that has destroyed more than 600 homes, killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin. 
Raging with zero containment for days, crews finally got a reprieve from strong winds Tuesday. Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said increased overnight humidity should help firefighters report some containment Wednesday. 
The Bastrop blaze is the most severe of the more than 180 wildfires reported in the past week across drought-stricken Texas. 
“It is certainly a remarkable fire in terms of evacuations and the number of homes that have burned,” Ken Frederick, spokesman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho, told Reuters. 
The fires have destroyed a total of more than 1,000 homes and caused four deaths, including the two at Bastrop, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. 
Governor Rick Perry said Tuesday that a 100-member search team would begin to comb the area around Bastrop for more possible victims Wednesday morning.




    Video: Gov. Rick Perry: Wildfires have been ‘devastating’  (on this page)

He deployed Texas Task Force 1, the state’s elite search team, to help local authorities. The team includes a dozen search dogs. 
Texas Task Force 1 was also sent to New York following the Sept. 11 attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. 




“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,” he said after the tour. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.” 
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening’s Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was “substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of.” 
But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there. 



        Story: For GOP, debate is where expectations meet reality


Perry, a favorite of the Tea Party movement who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires. He also complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being put to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze. 
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and “we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires.” 





Article source: http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/44420224/ns/weather/   Share this Post[?]         

		This entry was posted in banking news and tagged breaking news comeing into the news room, goverment news, news, news from world info hub, news room news, up to date news, uptodate news, world info hub by worldinfohub. Bookmark the permalink.		
				

 

About worldinfohub
				self-described Huguenot				

						View all posts by worldinfohub → 







Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
* Copy this password:
		* Type or paste password here:
		1,297 Spam Comments Blocked so far by Spam Free Wordpress Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  














Categories
Select Category
1 Million Strong Against Jennifer Ford  (14)
amber aleart  (1)
America’s Brutal Prison  (1)
and Active Warrants  (1)
anthony  (14)
anti Casey Anthony groups  (14)
Are Polls Reliable? One Says Casey Anthony Is Guilty  (14)
baezlawfirm  (8)
banker info  (1)
banker watch dogs  (1)
banking news  (286)
barbara walters  (1)
Barbara Walters Lands Interview with Casey Anthony Lawyer  (7)
BestBuy Corruption  (1)
Beware: Facebook Scams Use Casey Anthony and Video Chat as Bait  (7)
black listed news  (8)
bombshell casey anthony  (7)
boycott  (7)
boycott amazon  (5)
boycott casey anthony  (19)
boycott dr keith ablow  (7)
boycott keith  (2)
brachfeld and associates  (1)
braking news updates  (10)
breaking attorney  (3)
breaking news  (79)
breaking news casey anthony  (15)
breaking news George and Cindy Anthony  (11)
breaking news update  (13)
By DAVID COOK  (2)
casey anthoney  (48)
casey anthony  (62)
casey anthony attorney  (23)
casey anthony attorneys  (19)
casey anthony boycott  (29)
casey anthony Circuit Judge Lisa Taylor Munyon  (9)
casey anthony civil suit  (24)
casey anthony hideing  (31)
casey anthony husler update  (7)
casey anthony info base  (20)
Casey Anthony juror No. 3 Real info on Jennifer Ford  (15)
Casey Anthony jurors still feeling effects of public backlash  (14)
casey anthony jurry  (15)
casey anthony live trial  (7)
Casey Anthony News  (14)
casey anthony ordered back  (12)
casey anthony parole  (12)
casey anthony pdf  (7)
casey anthony profit  (11)
Casey Anthony time line  (11)
casey anthony trial  (15)
casey anthony trial.info casey anthony  (10)
casey anthony tril  (9)
casey anthony update  (58)
caseyanthony  (18)
caylee anthony justice  (17)
caylee is missing  (10)
cbs update  (1)
change.org  (6)
cheney mason wife  (5)
Christina Baez  (5)
Christina baez mugshot  (4)
churches  (2)
cindy anthony  (17)
city of orlando  (8)
civil lawyer  (2)
cnn  (3)
considering other targets  (2)
CopperCab’s Suicide Video  (1)
cops  (5)
court news  (3)
court system  (5)
court systems public defender system  (3)
creidt news  (1)
debt collection  (1)
Doctrine and Covenants  (1)
dr keath  (2)
dr phill  (7)
Drug News  (1)
emails  (2)
EXCLUSIVE: Casey Possibly Spotted At Orlando Airport  (7)
facebook  (5)
facebook news  (1)
fbi casey anthony  (9)
florida bar  (9)
Florida Medicaid News  (1)
Florida news  (8)
fox news  (2)
freedom news  (2)
funny  (2)
funny pics  (2)
George and Cindy Anthony news  (6)
George Anthony  (16)
geraldo rivera  (6)
go daddy big discount  (1)
google news  (9)
Google update  (5)
goverment shutdown  (2)
Governor Rick Scott Tierney  (1)
hacking  (1)
Health News  (177)
help with software  (1)
Hurricane Irene Update  (3)
Hurricane Preparedness  (2)
info base  (8)
info hub tip  (8)
infobase  (10)
infohub  (9)
Inmate  (1)
j cheney mason  (8)
jcheneymason  (10)
Jennifer Ford juror 3  (9)
Jennifer Ford pics  (7)
john morgan  (7)
jose baez  (18)
Jose baez funny  (7)
Judge aims to complete Casey Anthony jury selection today  (9)
Judge Belvin Perry  (13)
judge perry  (8)
judge strickland  (9)
Judge: Casey Anthony’s parents can be at trial  (9)
judgement day may 21 2011  (3)
juror no 3  (8)
jury of Casey Anthony  (8)
jury selection  (6)
law and news  (2)
LETTER FOR FLORIDA BAR  (6)
magic kingdom  (2)
Market news  (1)
media deal  (2)
Metropolitan Police DC  (1)
Metropolitan Police Department – DC.gov  (1)
missing  (2)
morgan and morgan  (5)
mormon  (2)
Mormon Church  (1)
mormon news  (2)
movie review  (1)
movie reviews  (1)
nancey grace  (8)
nbc  (1)
new york  (3)
news  (6636)
news corp  (3)
news info  (839)
news of the world  (8)
news orlando  (5)
news that is out  (7)
news u can use  (9)
news update  (7)
news updates  (2)
news you can use  (7)
newsinfobase  (7)
Nissan Of St Augustine Florida  (1)
nissan of st augustine is killing st augustine  (1)
no emotion police  (4)
noethcs  (9)
not afraid to roam  (2)
orange county  (6)
orange county courts  (5)
orange county jailo  (4)
orange county pdf jail  (2)
orlando  (8)
orlando breaking news  (4)
orlando court house  (3)
orlando florida  (10)
orlando news  (7)
orlando probashon office  (2)
orlando tot mom  (6)
ose baez is breaking attorney client privilege  (6)
people  (1)
Petitions  (1)
photos without giving tmx anymore money  (1)
police fight  (2)
Prescott Arizona Police Department  (3)
Prescott Police Department  (2)
privileges  (3)
public defender system  (2)
public outrage  (11)
RETRY Casey Anthony In Federal Court  (7)
Rick Scott  (1)
rip off  (2)
rip off st augusitne nissan  (1)
scandal  (5)
sex with casey anthony  (3)
Shocking News  (5)
Social Traffic  (1)
st augusitne florida  (3)
st augustine florida  (1)
st augustine nissan  (1)
st johns county  (3)
St Johns couny jail logs  (4)
ST. JOHNS COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE Daily Booking  (3)
state files motion  (2)
stock market  (1)
strong arm tactics nissan of st augustine  (1)
taxpayers  (2)
texas court  (2)
the lord  (1)
The troll list  (2)
thursday to probation office  (1)
tmz  (6)
today’s news  (6)
trial casey anthony  (7)
trusted sorce  (3)
ugly casey anthony  (8)
Uncategorized  (237)
update  (5)
update casey anthony  (8)
update judgement day  (3)
update news  (7)
uptodate  (5)
views  (1)
virus check  (1)
walt disney world  (2)
warn jeffs  (2)
warren jeff  (2)
warren jeffs trial update  (2)
Wells Fargo breaking news  (1)
word news info hub.info base media  (2)
world hub  (9)
world info hub  (14)
world info hub thoughts  (7)
world info hub tip  (9)
world info hubs thoughts  (7)
world news  (21)
world news info hub  (12)
world news jose baez  (7)
world of info  (5)
world still here  (2)
worldinfohub  (12)
worldnewsinfohub  (5)
yahoo news  (1)
youtube worldinfohub  (4)


 






Categories1 Million Strong Against Jennifer Ford
anthony
anti Casey Anthony groups
Are Polls Reliable? One Says Casey Anthony Is Guilty
banking news
boycott casey anthony
braking news updates
breaking news
breaking news casey anthony
breaking news George and Cindy Anthony
breaking news update
casey anthoney
casey anthony
caseyanthony
casey anthony attorney
casey anthony attorneys
casey anthony boycott
casey anthony civil suit
casey anthony hideing
casey anthony info base
Casey Anthony juror No. 3 Real info on Jennifer Ford
Casey Anthony jurors still feeling effects of public backlash
casey anthony jurry
Casey Anthony News
casey anthony ordered back
casey anthony parole
casey anthony profit
Casey Anthony time line
casey anthony trial
casey anthony trial.info casey anthony
casey anthony update
caylee anthony justice
cindy anthony
George Anthony
Health News
jose baez
Judge Belvin Perry
news
news info
public outrage
Uncategorized
worldinfohub
world info hub
world news
world news info hub
   
Blog Collector
blog




 All data and information provided on this site is for informational purposes only. worldinfohub.net makes no representations as to accuracy, completeness, currentness, suitability, or validity of any information on this site and will not be liable for any errors, omissions, or delays in this information or any losses, injuries, or damages arising from its display or use. All information is provided on an as-is basis.
 

 


















