lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2007 » June






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Saturday, June 30, 2007
Nick Bertozzi

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:29 am 
 


One of the great things about the burgeoning independent comics scene here in the U.S. is that a wider readership is beginning to see beyond the narrow cliché of “comics = superheroes” that has dominated the public’s general perception of what comics are, and open their eyes to some of the wider possibilities of the medium.
Comics (graphic stories) are a terrific place, for example, for cultural mash-ups, and a wonderful case in point is Nick Bertozzi’s “art history by way of noir murder mystery with a touch of supernatural fantasy graphic novel”, The Salon. 
Set in the pre-modernist cultural stew of Paris 100 years ago, the story pulls together protagonists like Picasso, Braque, Gertrude Stein, Leo Stein, Erik Sati and Guillaume Apollinaire in a fantastical murder mystery, in the course of which we are given the birth of Cubism revealed in discussions on a train and scrawls on a napkin.
Bertozzi weaves his tale in horizontal panels, giving it a somewhat cinematic consistency, and throws his images at us with brusquely drawn, rough edged ink lines, at times using intentional crudeness to push them in our face, at other times pulling back into woodcut-like refinement, and casts them in hauntingly expressive duotones.
His story, likewise, swings from from refined to crude, from intellectual ponderings on the nature of art to sex scenes and the scatological details of Georges Braque squatting on a chamber pot. Throughout it all, Bertozzi makes it abundantly clear that this particular story could not have been told effenctively in any way other than the unique synergy of words and pictures that we call comics.
You can read the first few pages online here (though the link for the fourth one seems broken at the moment), and a few others in the course of this interview with Bertozzi on The Comics Reporter; or you can watch a short promotional video. The fact that a “trailer” for a comics story feels natural points up the often mentioned relationship between comics and film. There is also a short film linked from Bertozzi’s site on The Making of Salon.
Ths comics page on his site features glimpses at some of Bertozzi’s other stories, including his recent collaboration with Jason Lutes, Houdini: The Handcuff King (the first title released under the auspices of The Center for Cartoon Studies), Drop Ceiling, an ongoing story originally serialized in Rubber Necker, and another history-based story, this one closer to actual history, of Ernest Shackelton.
Bertozzi also has illustration clients that include The New York Times, Fortune, SPIN Magazine and others. In addition he teaches a Comicbook Storytelling Workshop at the School of Visual Arts in New York.


Link: www.nickbertozzi.com
Tall Gent (Bertozzi's blog)
Interview about The Salon  on The Comics Reporter
Interview on Publishers Weekly
Review of The Salon on New York Times (registration required)
Interview on Comics Alliance
ACT-I-VATE comics blog (Bertozzi contributes)
Interview about Ernest Shackelton on Sequential Tart
Blog post by Henry Jenkins
Amazon links: The Salon, Houdini: The Handcuff King, The Masochists

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Friday, June 29, 2007
Dan May

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:18 am 
 


“Taunt Your Monster” says the title of one of Dan May’s images, and taunt them he does, in the process delighting us with a fascinating beastiary of odd flora and fauna. His creatures, monsters, occasional people and animal-like thingies inhabit charmingly odd environments that look like undersea landscapes or perhaps the ice caves of Muni Mula, or are often presented stark against backgrounds of big obvious brush strokes and textures of paint as paint.
May’s paintings carry echoes of Joan Miro and Yves Tanguy and he occasionally tips his hat to pop culture influences with tributes to the likes of Dr. Seuss and Tim Burton.
He works in acrylic on wood or canvas and varies between larger canvasses populated with multiple examples of his odd animals, plant things and and sometimes vaguely microbial or virus-like entities, and smaller works in which one or two are isolated.
May has worked extensively as an illustrator but now focuses more on painting and exhibiting as a gallery artist. His bio page includes a  list of illustration clients and gallery exhibitions. 
His web site includes two galleries that can be navigated by convenient arrows, sequence dots or by simply clicking on the images to move forward.
The link to “Blog” is actually to a Flickr space with multiple galleries that are considerably more extensive than the web site and includes blog-like entries on the main page. 
There is a post about May on illustrationMundo and an interview on LCSV4.


Link: www.mayillustration.com/
Blog/Flickr galleries

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, June 28, 2007
Animator vs. Animation (Alan Becker)

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:49 am 
 


OK, I have to admit that this is something I find particularly appealing for a number of reasons, and may not appeal to everyone to the same degree, but I can’t help enjoying it as much as I do. 
First of all, I’m a sucker for comics stories or animations in which the artist interacts with his or her creation. One of my all-time favorite Warner Brothers cartoons, for example, is Duck Amuck, in which Daffy is tormented by the hand, pencil and eraser of the unseen animator. 
Animator vs. Animation, a Flash animation by Alan Becker, is a kind of reversal on that notion, in which the animator’s creation gains a will of it’s own and engages him in a battle for control. 
The particularly delightful thing for me is that the battlefield on which this conflict is played out is the Flash application interface itself. As someone who works in Flash, and in fact teaches it, I took great delight in seeing this familiar set of tools, palettes, timeline, and controls deconstructed in a battle between the artist’s stick figure character, initially labeled “victim”, and the artist, cleverly represented by the  mouse cursor.
In spite of some of the Flash-specific references and in-jokes, I think anyone can appreciate the general idea and the entertaining way it’s presented. 
Apparently, the animation has been successful enough that Becker has revised it, and followed it up with a sequel, Animator vs. Animation II, in which he has given his protagonist (antagonist) more power, in anticipation of a greater challenge, and the battle rages well beyond the Flash interface. 
He says in the introductions to the two animations that the first one took him three months to complete; the second one, five months.
Becker doesn’t seem to have a web site, instead posting his animations and other projects to his deviantART space. 
One of the other items on his page is this quite nice acrylic painting of his own home-grown watermelon. There are also other drawings. His brief bio indicates that he is only 18 and plans to attend the Columbus College of Art and Design and pursue a career in art. Something tells me we’ll be seeing more from him as time goes on.
[Link courtesy of Janet Kofoed]


Link: Animator vs. Animation
Animator vs. Animation II
Alan Becker page on deviantART

Posted in:  Animation,Motion Graphics & Flash   |   6 Comments »


Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Mark Campana

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:21 am 
 


Some landscape and cityscape paintings have a distinct sense of place. There is a certain appeal to paintings with subjects that are exotic and imply the romance of travel, for those of us in the U.S. that might be exemplified by images of Venice or Paris. 
There is also a strong appeal, however, in the near and familiar, and many artists will devote them selves to the portrayal of the areas near where they live, finding resonance with those who have familiarity and identification with the places pictured.
Mark Campana is a Philadelphia painter who covers a range of subjects, but I particularly enjoy his depictions of houses, streets, cafes and shops in the areas of Center City (what those of us in Philadelphia call our downtown) around Rittenhouse Square and Fitler Square, both of which are areas in which I lived at one time, and both of which contain a rich array of architecture. It’s a section of the city criss-crossed with small streets that are lined with old, real townhouses, (large, 19th Century, single family city houses, as opposed to the misnamed suburban constructions for which “townhouse” is a euphemism used to avoid calling them what they actually are, row houses). 
Campana has also found a rich source of subjects in the city parks themselves, Rittenhouse Square is a marvel of a city park, and Fitler Square is a small treasure, unknown even to many Philadelphia residents. The two areas actually adjoin one another, and I used to enjoy the visual richness as I walked through them on my way to school when I was a student at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.
Campana, was a graphic design student at the Art Institute (Philadelphia has more art schools per capita than any other city in the U.S.), but moved into gallery art shortly after graduating; and, like many artists, considers most of his painting skills self-taught. Campana is from South Philadelphia and has exhibited in the city for years, both in galleries like The Newman Galleries, The Home Works Gallery and the Kevin Butler Gallery, but also in the city’s juried outdoor art exhibitions. 
I’ve encountered Campana and his work before at the Rittenhouse Square Fine Arts Annual (one of the oldest juried outdoor art shows in the nation), and I ran into him again last weekend at the Manayunk Art Show. Manayunk is an area of Philadelphia that feels a bit like a European town, perched on a hillside above a river, filled with tiny streets and small houses, and is an ideal setting for an event that is part juried art show, part street fair.
These kind of exhibitions allow Campana, and artists like him, to connect directly with their patrons in a way not ordinarily possible in a gallery setting, which lends itself particularly well to artists whose work has that element of a local connection. 
Unfortunately the images of Campana’s paintings on his web site are a bit small and not always reproduced as well as I would like, making it difficult to see the visual charm in his brush marks and paint surface, lively with bits of scumbling and broken color.
I particularly like his contrasts of light and dark, textures of stone and brick and his frequent portrayal of dappled light and shade on the small side streets.
To those of you not in Philadelphia, or even the U.S., perhaps his images will pass over into the distant and different, but for me they’re wonderfully familiar.


Link: http://markcampana.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Tuesday, June 26, 2007
Simon Ng

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:39 am 
 

Illustrator Simon Ng was born in Singapore, acquired his illustration degree from Otis College in Los Angeles, worked for publishing houses and a children’s magazine company in Hong Kong for several years, and is now back in Singapore, doing freelance illustration for a number of agencies.
One of his projects was a series of three (as far as I know) illustrations used to raise awareness for the Gambling Helpline of the National Council on Problem Gambling, Singapore. 
These took the form of three playing cards, the Ace of Hearts, 7 of Diamonds and a Joker, in which Ng has created the card markings in smaller illustrated vignettes of scenes of domestic violence, abandonment, financial and emotional distress.
The image at left shows the 7 of Diamonds illustration with a detail below it of the “7″, suit marker diamond and one of the interior diamond markings.
A terrific idea, beautifully executed. Art direction is credited to Bob Tay from McCann-Erickson, Singapore. You can see all three of the Gambling Helpline illustrations on Ng’s blog, simon @rtwork. 
The campaign and illustrations have garnered awards from many quarters, including The Singapore Creative Circle Awards, Adfest, The World Press Award and the D&AD Yellow Pencil.
Simon Ng also has a portfolio site where you can see his illustrations, character designs and storyboard illustrations. Ng works in a variety of stylistic approaches and seems to enjoy taking on wide range of projects.
Link via StartDrawing.org
 


Link: Psymanism (portfolio site)
simon @rtwork (blog)
Gambling Helpline illustrations 

Posted in:  Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Monday, June 25, 2007
Caravaggio

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:29 am 
 


Multiple Choice: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio (Michelangelo Merisi from the town of Caravaggio, Italy) was:
A. One of the greatest painters in the history of Western art
B. A rebellious upstart who defied the conventions of religious painting, alienated patrons and incensed the church
C. A master of chiaroscuro, the dramatic contrast of light and dark, perhaps matched only by Rembrandt
D. A master of foreshortening, the difficult representation of the body or limbs from end on, possibly matched only by Michelangelo Buonerotti
E. A bragging, swaggering show off who specialized in dramatic, violent scenes of fights, struggles and particularly beheadings, one of which featured his self-portrait as the severed head of Goliath 
F. One of the most respected and envied painters in Rome at the beginning of the Baroque period, and a tremendous influence on other artists
G. Largely forgotten in the centuries following his death until “rediscovered” in the 20th Century
H. A violent, irresponsible, brawling miscreant, who went looking for fights and was arrested and imprisoned for multiple assaults, one of which resulted in the death of his opponent over a disputed game of court tennis and forced him to take it on the lam for several years until pardoned by the Pope
I. All of the above.
Well, whatever else you may say of him, one thing stands out about Caravaggio: this guy could paint!
Look at his famous painting of the Supper at Emmaus (image and details, above). This is no glossed over, idealized religious scene, aglow with the unreality of poetic divinity, this a real scene with very real figures. 
Everything here is tangible, and rendered with the kind of palpable fidelity to life that got some of Caravaggio’s other works rejected as vulgar and secular. Look at the disciple’s hand on the chair in the foreground, the “instant in time” position as that figure is about to rise, the outstretched hand of the beardless figure of Christ and other disciple’s hands extended into space, suspended toward or away from us in dramatic foreshortening, the rich, dark shadows, against which the whites of the cloth pop forward, the tactile physicality of the food and plates on the table, rendered with as much care and emphasis as the figures themselves, the odd way one disciple’s elbow and the other’s fingertips are cut off by the edge of the canvas, and the striking realism of the faces, more portraits than idealized figures. What a tour de force of painting skill. What a show-off. What a painter! 
Though I can’t say I was unequivocally thrilled with last week’s showings of the PBS series The Power of Art (see my previous post), I will say that they were interesting and thought provoking and for that reason worthwhile. Tonight’s program will be on Caravaggio (10PM on most PBS stations), and it will be interesting to see which of Caravaggio’s faces the program chooses for its focus.
There are many angles by which to approach Caravaggio; he was a pretty remarkable fellow in more ways than one. Take your choice.


Link: The Power of Art: Caravaggio
The Supper at Emmaus at the National Gallery, London
David with the Head of Goliath and other Caravaggio at Galleria Borghese
The Athenaeum (66 works)
Humanities Web
CGFA
WebMuseum
ARC
Cuidad de la pintura
Artcyclopedia (links, museum listings and resources)
Books on Amazon
My previous post on Rembrandt vs. Caravaggio

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   17 Comments »


Sunday, June 24, 2007
Willy Pogany

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:31 am 
 


William Andrew Pogany, called “Willy”, was a prolific Hungarian born illustrator, active around the turn of the last century, who illustrated over a hundred books. Most were children’s classics like Arabian Nights, and Mother Goose, even Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, but also included less common titles like the Bhagavad Gita and the Rubiat. 
Before coming to the US in 1914, he studied in Budapest, Munich and Paris, and lived in London for 10 years where he illustrated four titles that were considered his masterpieces, Colridge’s The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Wagner’s Tannhauser, Parsifal and Lohengrin.
Pogany worked in a fluid Art-Nouveau influenced style that varied widely throughout his career. He seemed to alter his approach at will to suit the subject matter. His prints for Tisza Tales (above, right) are reminiscent of Ivan Bilibin. He also did a variety of commercial and editorial work for periodicals (above, left).
Pogany designed stage sets for the Metropolitan Opera and various Broadway productions in NY, painted murals, did art direction for movies, including uncredited work for the 1932 version of The Mummy, created architectural designs, did sculpture and, in his later years, portraits, including subjects like John Barrymore and Carole Lombard.
VictorianWeb has Pogany’s Rime of the Ancient Mariner posted online, but it’s not very satisfying. Like much of the Gutenberg Project, and the Willy Pogany archive from the University of Pennsylvania Library, it suffers from the apparent unwritten rule that public domain books posted on the web must have poorly scanned and badly reproduced versions of the illustrations.
It’s unfortunate, because his pen and ink illustrations are particularly good, but I’ve found few on the web that are reproduced well enough to get an idea of what they really look like, here’s one.
Pogany also authored a number of books on painting and drawing techniques. I first encountered Pogany in the wonderfully inexpensive Dover Books reproduction of his classic The Art of Drawing. Though perhaps not as thorough or authoritative as Loomis‘ Figure Drawing for All it’s Worth, it is still a terrific resource for any comic book artist, illustrator, animator or other artist interested in constructing the figure. 
His figures have a touch of designerly, Art Nouveau charm that the more straightforward instructional drawings from Loomis and Bridgeman lack. You should be able to find some of his other illustrated books from Amazon and other sources.


Link: Willy Pogany on American Art Archives
Illustrated bio on BPIB, additional autobiographical sketch
Illustrated bio on Cartage.org
Childscapes, with gallery of prints
Every Picture Tells a Story
"Alice" illustrations (2) on LaurenHarmen.com
"Dancing Girls" on Premier Illustration Books (1 image)
IBIS Journal
Artcytlopedia

Posted in:  Drawing,Illustration,Tools and Techniques   |   1 Comment »


Saturday, June 23, 2007
The drawing bench (horse)

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:11 am 
 


Though I use them for painting, I have never been fond of easels when attending life drawing sessions. They always seemed awkward, uncomfortable and in my way when trying to get from model to eye to hand to paper as directly as possible.
Fortunately, I encountered many interesting tools from the academic art tradition early on when I began taking classes. One of them was the use of a drawing bench, which is often called a “drawing horse” or an “art horse”, I assume because one sits astride it, and/or because one looks about as silly as a child on a wooden hobby horse when using it.
A drawing bench  or horse is a wooden bench with one raised end, or with two raised ends, one higher than the other, that is designed to allow an artist (or young buckaroo) to sit astride one end and prop a drawing board up against the other. 
The wonderful advantage of a drawing bench over an easel is that the drawing is below your line of sight to the model, rather than to one side.
You look up at the model, straight on and directly above your drawing, rather than stepping back or repeatedly turning your head from side to side. To me this is a much more natural and satisfactory method of drawing from life. I also think it’s significantly more comfortable, particularly over the course of an extended drawing session, or in classes day after day. Despite the notion of noble suffering for one’s art, I prefer to be as comfortable as possible when I’m concentrating on drawing.
Of course, shortly after I began to use a drawing bench, I found I preferred to misuse it. Rather than propping the drawing board almost vertically on the bench, with its lower end in one of the grooves intended for that purpose, allowing the correct arms-length pivot from the shoulder when drawing large scale (shown in my sketch above, bottom left), I began to sit forward on the bench, drawing board propped in my lap and leaning over it so that it served as miniature drawing table, allowing me to finesse small scale drawings (above, bottom right).
Many art schools and drawing sessions provide them, particularly those with 19th century academic traditions, and you can also find them from larger art suppliers. Here’s a fairly standard one from Dick Blick (image above, left). I’ve also come across models like this one (image above, top right), from chlidren’s supplier Sensory Edge that has a rounded end, that restricts your ability to misuse the thing the way I like to.
You can also find variations that have a built in easel, which defeat the purpose in my mind, or that actually have a small adjustable drawing table incorporated.
I’m not suggesting that you run out and drop $$ on a drawing bench. If you’re inclined, and modestly carpentry enabled, you can cobble one together from scrap lumber, as in this fine example of a homemade drawing horse from Meer Image (shown above, top middle).
Also, you can approximate the use of a drawing bench, or at least my assiduously incorrect application of one, by using two folding chairs, one to sit in and the other placed in front of you with its back to you, allowing you to prop your drawing board against the back and lean over it a bit like a drawing table.
If you’ve always done life drawing by turning your head side to side from an easel, this approach is certainly worth investigating; and you may find you like riding the range on your trusty drawing horse.
Giddyup!

Posted in:  Drawing,Tools and Techniques   |   10 Comments »


Friday, June 22, 2007
Greg Pro

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:02 pm 
 


Greg Pro creates concept designs and character designs for the entertainment industry, though his emphasis is not on films and games as much as it is the presentation of entertainment concepts in the form of theme park rides, theme park architecture and related designs for casinos and other venues where the physical environment is, in essence, a form of entertainment.
Pro’s clients include Disney, Universal Studios, Paramount Parks and Landmark Entertainment. His web site includes galleries of illustration, storyboards, character designs and sketches. 
As much as I like the ostensibly more exciting images of scenes from theme park thrill rides, I’m actually most interested his renderings for architectural environments (in the “Illustration” section). 
I find the idea of creating physical spaces that are visual entertainment particularly fascinating. When I go to a theme park, I get as much, or more, enjoyment out of the appearance of the attractions as I do out of the rides and entertainment. Pro manages to convey that visual appeal in his paintings (even though the “Full Size” images on his site are still a bit small to get a real feeling for the rendering).
Pro works digitally and the “Process” section has a brief description of his approach.
Note: Like a theme park ride, Pro’s site throws sound effects at you. You may want to turn sound off if you’re viewing at work.


Link: www.gregpro.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, June 21, 2007
Frida Kahlo

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:13 am 
 


As this self portrait makes startlingly clear, the life and art of Mexican painter Frida Kahlo are inextricably intertwined with that of Diego Rivera, her mentor, husband and largest artistic influence.
It’s also difficult to separate her from her times and the other strong-willed and influential people she encountered in her life, from political figures like Leon Trotsky (she and Rivera were supporters of Communism when it seemed more like a social revolution than an excuse for another bunch of totalitarian governments), to the avant garde artists in Paris who were ripping up the fabric of art and making some bizarre new material out of its remnants. 
Kahlo is often referred to as a Surrealist. You will occasionally hear me rant about the casual misuse of that term, and Kahlo, who associated with the original Surrealists and knew exactly what was and wasn’t Surrealism, did not consider herself a Surrealist; saying: “They thought I was a Surrealist, but I wasn’t. I never painted dreams. I painted my own reality.”
She later came to despise the intellectual snobbery and coldness of Breton and the other Paris Surrealists, saying of them, “They are so damn ‘intellectual’ and rotten that I can’t stand them anymore….I [would] rather sit on the floor in the market of Toluca and sell tortillas, than have anything to do with those ‘artistic’ bitches of Paris.”
Kahlo was, to say the least, outspoken, both verbally and in the confrontational, in-your-face directness of her paintings. Many of her works are self portraits and, in essence, all of her work is autobiographical. In a time when her contemporaries in Mexico, like Rivera, were painting large, bold murals depicting the noble struggles of the poor and downtrodden workers, and Mexico’s 1910 revolution, Kahlo chose a much more intimate, though no less bold, path for her art.
Her self portraits look at first, in spite of their imaginative overtones of symbolism and visionary art, to be very direct and honest appraisals. After comparing them to some photographs, however, I think they were actually intentionally (perhaps subconsciously) harsh, almost always emphasizing her mustache and “unibrow” effect which, while visible  in photographs, seem much more pronounced in her paintings.   I see her work as self-critical; it is hard edged and at times is obviously an expression of pain, disappointment and emotional turmoil.
She paints her images with an undeniable force of personality and a painting style that borrows some of its power from traditional Mexican art forms, as well as the image juxtapositions employed by the Surrealists, the melodramatic murals of her husband and his comtemporaries, and the bold primitivism of artists like Rousseau.
The personal and self-confessional nature of her work, her feminist and communist beliefs, and the turmoil of her life, have made her something of a hero to many, and she is sometimes exemplified as a victimized woman; though I find it hard to see someone of such obvious strength of will and force of character as a timid victim.
She did have great difficulties to overcome, however. Her life with, and two marriages to Rivera were filled with infidelity and difficulties from the outset. Her painting career began in convalescence from a trolley accident as a teenager, that crushed many bones and broke her back in three places. In her later years she said: “I have had two accidents in my life – the streetcar crash and Diego Rivera”. She also had polio as a child and was in physical pain much of her life and unable to have children. Lest we get all misty-eyed, there is also indication that she was not the kindest or nicest individual herself, and was often not spoken well of by artists and others who encountered her.
I’ll point out here that I have not seen Frida,  the popular movie about her which starred Salma Hayek, nor have I seen the documentaries on PBS or A&E. I have also not seen her originals in person, so my knowledge of her life and work comes from images in print or online.
This year marks the 100th anniversary of her birth, and the Museum of the Palace of Fine Arts in Mexico City, her birthplace,  has mounted the largest ever exhibition of her work, Frida Kahlo 1907 — 2007 National Homage, which runs from now through August 19, 2007. The museum does not have images online, but I’ve gathered some other resources for you below.
Exhibition links via Art Knowledge News


Link: Ciudad de la pintura (ES)
El Poder de la Palabra (ES)
The Athenaeum
The Artchive bio and images
Olga's Gallery
PBS special (from
Frida Kahlo Fans
Quotes
Past exhibit at Tate Modern
Artcyclopedia (links)
Amazon.com (numerous books)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   16 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  11 hours ago Watercolor artist Keiko Tanabe's wonderful evocations of Japan, China, Europe and the US: http://t.co/3Gr154T New Lines and Colors post.  2011/09/08 Into the Pixel 2011, showcase of video game art: http://t.co/HC6vDzC New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/08


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






