News Global TV - powered by FeedBurner
&



News Global TV

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get News Global TV delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



For U.S.-Mexico border town, Sept. 11 brought high wall


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:14 +0000


By Tim Gaynor

NACO, Mexico |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 5:33pm EDT


NACO, Mexico (Reuters) – When news broke of the airliners striking the twin towers in New York 10 years ago, Mexican bookkeeper Jose Manuel Madrid was readying for work in his tiny hometown on the Arizona border.

Watching the tragedy unfold on television, he had no inkling of how it would transform the lives of residents in the remote community of Naco straddling the international border.

“Nobody imagined the repercussions … that these events would have” for us, said Madrid, now the mayor of Naco, a dusty ranching town of 6,000 residents in Mexico’s northern Sonora State.

The September 11 attacks, orchestrated by al Qaeda militants, led to the largest shakeup of the U.S. federal government since the Cold War, with the founding of the Department of Homeland Security in 2003.

As part of its core mission of preventing “terrorists and terrorist weapons from entering the United States,” the new Customs and Border Protection agency has since sharply boosted security on the nation’s borders

The surge more than doubled the number of Border Patrol agents to 20,000. Infrastructure added to secure the Mexico border includes nearly 700 miles of additional fences as well as lights, sensors, cameras, ground radar and even unmanned surveillance drones.

The changes transformed the lives of residents in Naco, Mexico, and its namesake twin in Arizona — which have strong community and family ties dating to before the Mexican Revolution more than a century ago.

As a mark of a sometimes quirky relationship, firefighters from the Arizona side race south to help their less well equipped colleagues put out fires in Mexico. Residents used to hold a joint fiesta with a volleyball game over the waist high border fence, although those games no longer happen.

“We had to adapt to a new situation and get used to the changes,” said Madrid, sitting in his office a couple of blocks south of the tall, steel border fence that now marks the international border.

TIGHTER SECURITY

On September 11, 2001, locals recall how Border Patrol agents armed with assault rifles immediately took up guard at the Naco station, although the larger changes to security have been incremental over the past decade.

Most noticeable is the new border wall. Whereas it once extended about a mile either side of Naco, a curtain of steel up to 15 feet tall now carves across 20 miles of the high grassland valley, lit at night by stadium-style lights, and monitored by video cameras.

The number of agents at the local U.S. Border Patrol station, meanwhile, has quadrupled to around 400. The station itself is being rebuilt at a reported cost of $40 million to include a new helipad, stabling for more than two dozen horses, as well as a gym, indoor shooting range and offices for agents.

As a measure of its success, the Tucson sector Border Patrol notes that drug seizures in the stretch of border including Naco have risen over the decade, while illegal immigrant arrests have plunged to 212,000 last year from highs of 616,000 in 2000.

“I believe, as an agent, we are more effective than we were 10 years ago, no doubt about it,” said Tony Dominguez, a supervisory Border Patrol agent who has worked at the Naco station since before the attacks on New York and Washington.

“All the new infrastructure, the technology, the manpower increase — it’s given us an advantage to basically interdict anything that comes north,” he added.

While the security surge has ended the volleyball match over the fence, it is welcomed by some on the Arizona side concerned about Mexican drug traffickers and even bandits slipping over the border.

“It feels a bit safer because of the wall,” said local fire district chief Jesus Morales, who is the only elected official in the tiny, unincorporated Arizona town.

“It’s … a bit harder for people coming in to do bad stuff over here,” he added.

‘NOTHING’S CHANGED’

But other residents in the high desert valley are not persuaded that the build up has been a benefit to the local community.

“With the wall, and the lights and the Border Patrol hovering over my house at five o’clock in the morning, I’m a lot less happy on the border now than I was,” said Diane Daniel, who made soap and goats’ cheese at her home near Naco at the time of the attacks.

Daniel is also skeptical that the surge at the border would prevent future attacks like those in 2001, carried out by 19 hijackers from several Arab countries who entered the United States legally.

“I think that the terrorists are either going to be domestic — that would be my first concern — or they are going to fly in First Class just like they did the last time,” she said.

Local rancher John Ladd says some things have not changed since the attacks.

A decade on, a daily game of cat and mouse between the Border Patrol, smugglers and illegal immigrants continues to play out across his family’s 14,000-acre spread outside Naco, damaging fences and gates and letting livestock onto the highway.

“We’ve got cameras, we’ve got radar, we’ve got street lights, we’ve got more agents, we’ve got a wall,” he said with a weary smile. “Nothing’s changed.”

(Editing by Cynthia Johnston and Greg McCune)

(This story was corrected to show fire trucks still cross to Mexico)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




Soldiers’ Voices: "I can do anything"


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:12 +0000



BERKELEY, California |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:46am EDT


BERKELEY, California (Reuters) – For Emily Yates, the worst part of serving in Iraq with the U.S. Army was the loss of control.

Yates, now a 29-year-old student at the University of California, Berkeley, was sent twice to Baghdad, serving as a public affairs specialist, military journalist and photographer with the 2nd Brigade, 3rd Infantry Division.

Her first stint in Iraq stretched from June 2005 to January 2006; her second was from March 2007 to May 2008. She signed up in the hopes of getting training for a career in journalism, but found herself unable to leave on schedule when the military’s “stop-loss” policy forced her to extend her service.

The worst was not the rockets and mortar shells that rained continuously down on her bases at Camp Liberty and Camp Victory, she said.

“My source of depression and emotional and psychological issues come from being there for such a long time at a stretch and not really getting the kind of support I needed for what I was dealing with,” she said.

“When you are feeling not in control of your own destiny, you either shut down or you become angry.”

Yates does not look much like a soldier now. With tattoos and long curly hair, she dresses in cowboy boots and faux sheepskin shirts. She plays the ukulele, draws, writes and does graphic design. She co-founded a group called Veteran Artists and is focusing some of her studies on the Middle East.

And as much as she hated her years in the Army, she feels stronger for them.

“Having gone through that, I feel like I can do anything,” she said.

(Reporting by Laird Harrison; writing by Alex Dobuzinskis; editing by Arlene Getz, Ellen Wulfhorst and Greg McCune)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




Two soldiers detained over missing Fort Bragg ammunition


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:10 +0000



WILMINGTON, N.C |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 4:44pm EDT


WILMINGTON, N.C (Reuters) – Two male soldiers have been taken into custody at Fort Bragg, North Carolina in connection with the disappearance of roughly 14,000 rounds of ammunition reported missing at the Army base on Wednesday morning, officials said on Saturday.

Military police would not release the names or ranks of the soldiers in custody.

The missing 5.56 millimeter ammunition is valued at about $3,600 and “can be purchased at any Wal-Mart,” according to an official familiar with the investigation who spoke to Reuters only on condition of anonymity.

Ammunition handlers from the 82nd Airborne Division’s 1st Brigade Combat Team reported the missing rounds, said division spokesman Staff Sergeant Joshua Ford.

The combat team uses the ammunition in the M4 carbine and M16 assault rifle, Ford said.

The 1st Brigade Combat Team was placed on lock-down for a few hours Wednesday night while officials searched for the ammunition, Ford said.

The investigation into the missing ammunition is ongoing, Ford said on Saturday, declining to elaborate.

(Reporting by Jim Brumm; Writing by Eric Johnson; Editing by Greg McCune)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




Fresh crews, light winds help fight Texas wildfires


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:08 +0000


By Jim Forsyth

SAN ANTONIO |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 5:37pm EDT


SAN ANTONIO (Reuters) – More than a thousand firefighters, aided by lighter winds, on Saturday began to beat back raging wildfires that have scorched Texas for the past six days torching 1,600 homes and killing four people.

“We’ve had quite a bit of success today,” Bill Paxton of the Texas Forest Service said of the battle to contain six dozen major blazes that have torched 154,000 acres across Texas since Sunday.

The largest of them, the Bastrop Complex fire, which has burned 1,376 homes and killed two people, was 40 percent contained on Saturday, Paxton said, as 64 aircraft and nearly 1,100 firefighters began to beat back the flames.

Many of the firefighters had been cycled in from other federal agencies to help exhausted firefighters rushed in from across Texas.

“Not only are we making inroads fighting the fires, but having so many more people has allowed us to give the Texas firefighters a much needed rest,” Paxton said.

President Barack Obama late on Friday approved federal disaster assistance for parts of the state charred by the blazes, acting after criticism from Governor Rick Perry that the federal government was ignoring the drought in his state.

Wildfires have scorched 3.67 million acres in Texas since January, more than half of all of the acreage destroyed by wildfires nationwide in 2011.

Almost all of the state’s 254 counties have banned outdoor burning, and 80 percent of the state is experiencing “exceptional drought” — the worst of the five categories listed in the U.S. Drought Monitor.

Four people have been killed by fires in Texas since Sunday, when roaring winds from Tropical Storm Lee fanned more than six dozen major fires in the state.

Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald told a midday briefing that the effort being committed to fighting the deadly Bastrop Complex fire has stopped it from spreading, but he warned the fire is far from extinguished.

“Containment is now up to 40 percent, but we are still fighting the fire across the entire fire zone, which is more than 33,000 acres,” he said.

‘A HURTING SITUATION’

While some of the 5,000 people who have been evacuated from their homes in Bastrop County have been allowed to return to what’s left of their property, McDonald says it will be a while before all those displaced are allowed home.

“We are going to get people back into their houses, but there is still going to be a lot of healing that will have to take place, and the entire community is going to have to stand together to make that happen,” he said.

The fact that some residents are being allowed back into the burned out area while others are not, is beginning to anger evacuees, who crowd the Bastrop Community Center to scour the lists posted detailing the addresses of destroyed homes.

“It’s a hurting situation when you have five kids sitting there, and they don’t know what’s going on,” said Charlie Dayton, who has been unable to return to the site of his home, which was listed as destroyed.

“I just wish they would let people go back to their places,” he said.

Bastrop County residents took some relief from the disaster order made late Friday, which makes homeowners and businesses eligible for federal aid, and reimburses local authorities for costs incurred fighting the fires.

“I want to thank the White House and FEMA for responding to our request for a disaster declaration,” said Lt. Governor David Dewhurst, who is standing in for Perry as he campaigns for the Republican nomination for president.

“While I’m appreciative that the president granted a limited disaster declaration for Bastrop County, I’m still concerned about the rest of the state, especially the thousands of homes that have been destroyed and families who have been displaced,” he added.

While the destructive Bastrop fire has garnered most attention, Paxton said the Riley Road Fire, northwest of Houston, is “burning the most aggressively.”

He said the blaze had scorched 21,000 acres and torched 60 buildings, and was just 25 percent contained as of Saturday. The fire has forced the evacuation of dozens of subdivisions.

“I had a chance to look in the direction of where the fire was coming, and it was very close,” said Mike Estrada, a resident evacuated from the path of that fire.

“I would say that the flames were 200 feet high.”

(Editing by Tim Gaynor and Greg McCune)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




Wildfire burns 9 homes in Washington state


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:06 +0000



SEATTLE |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 9:05pm EDT


SEATTLE (Reuters) – Over 700 firefighters battled to contain a wildfire on Saturday that torched nine homes and led to the evacuation of several hundred people in south Washington state.

The Monastery Fire burned through more 4,250 acres of ponderosa pine and brush northeast of the town of Goldendale, razing 64 buildings, including nine homes, the fire incident team said.

The blaze, which started on Wednesday afternoon in an area near the Brooks Memorial State Park, was roughly 20 percent contained by Saturday afternoon, team spokesman Guy Gifford said.

“It’s currently staying within the fire perimeter, so things are going well from the firefighting standpoint,” Gifford told Reuters by telephone.

Gifford said around 200 homes had been evacuated. Some residents were expected to be allowed home late on Saturday, he said.

(Reporting by Tim Gaynor; Editing by Eric Johnson)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




Suspicious item found at airport near Washington


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:04 +0000



WASHINGTON |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 8:29pm EDT


WASHINGTON (Reuters) – Authorities found a suspicious object at Dulles International Airport near Washington on Saturday, prompting the closure of several gates on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks.

Airport spokesman Rob Yingling said the airport was operating normally after some planes were reassigned to other gates for arrival and departure.

The suspicious object was found in a freight container at about 4:30 p.m. and four hours later was still being checked by Virginia state police near one of the airport concourses.

Dulles is about 22 miles west of Washington, where authorities are on alert ahead of the 10th anniversary of the al Qaeda attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center in New York using hijacked passenger planes.

(Writing by Bill Trott; Editing by John O’Callaghan)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




Bush says U.S. will never forget Flight 93


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:02 +0000


By Daniel Lovering

SHANKSVILLE, PA |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 8:22pm EDT


SHANKSVILLE, PA (Reuters) – Former President George W. Bush on Saturday promised that the nation would never forget the heroism of the 40 passengers and crew killed in the crash of hijacked United Flight 93 on September 11, 2001.

“What happened above this Pennsylvania field was among the most courageous acts in American history,” Bush told a crowd during the dedication of a memorial at the site where the flight crashed following an onboard struggle to thwart hijackers who had seized the plane.

Investigators believe the hijackers of that plane wanted to hit the U.S. Capitol or the White House.

“For as long as this memorial stands, we’ll remember … the sacrifice they made and the lives they spared. The United States will never forget,” said Bush, one of many dignitaries speaking at the gathering under leaden skies.

Among them was former President Bill Clinton, who thanked Bush and President Barack Obama, scheduled to appear at the site on Sunday, for “not letting us get attacked again.”

Vice President Joseph Biden also spoke about the courage of those aboard Flight 93 and the “debt we can never repay.”

“They didn’t board that plane to fight a war but when they heard the news … they stood up and they stood their ground,” Biden said.

Some family members were pleased with the recognition, including Calvin Wilson, 55, of Herndon, Virginia, whose brother in law was copilot Leroy Homer.

“What was special for me was that we have the acknowledgement from our country that they were heroes … I feel good. I feel recharged,” Wilson said.

The memorial, which is about 40 percent complete, includes a marble wall etched with the names of the 40 passengers and crew. The wall follows the flight path and a large boulder marks the approximate crash site.

Forty groves of trees will be planted in a nearby field, and there will be a walkway along those groves that will pass between two large walls. There will be an overlook that will allow visitors to see the expanse of the field and the crash site. The memorial is scheduled to be finished in 2014, according to architect Paul Murdoch.

A temporary memorial has stood for a decade at the site in southwestern Pennsylvania, and nearly 1.5 million people have visited.

At Saturday’s two-hour dedication ceremony, FBI agents raised a flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol on September 11, 2001, and a bagpiper played “Amazing Grace.”

“I had more feeling for this place than Washington or New York because these people averted something that much bigger, that much deadlier,” said Merrie Keller, 57, of Harboro, Pennsylvania, who came on a bus trip sponsored by a radio station.

Organizers say $10 million still needs to be raised to complete construction of the Flight 93 National Memorial. At the ceremony, former President Clinton, a Democrat, said he and House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican, had agreed to have a bipartisan event to raise money for the memorial.

About $52 million has already been raised in public and private funds.

(Editing by Ellen Wulfhorst, Barbara Goldberg and Greg McCune)

Source: Reuters: U.S.
    




French banks braced for credit-rating downgrade: sources


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:44:00 +0000


By Lionel Laurent

PARIS |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 2:08pm EDT


PARIS (Reuters) – France’s top banks are bracing themselves for a likely credit rating downgrade from Moody’s, sources close to the situation said on Saturday, further complicating their efforts to assure investors they are riding out the tensions in funding markets.

Several sources said on Saturday that BNP Paribas (BNPP.PA), Societe Generale (SOGN.PA) and Credit Agricole (CAGR.PA) were expecting an “imminent” decision from the ratings agency, which first put them under review for possible downgrade on June 15.

Moody’s at the time had cited French banks’ exposure to Greece’s debt-stricken economy as the reason behind the review, which was due to last three months. Outside commentators said the ratings were ripe for a downgrade because of rising borrowing costs in the face of sovereign debt turmoil.

“The decision is imminent,” one Paris-based source said. “It will probably be a downgrade but it’s not certain yet.”

France’s lenders — two of which own local banks in Greece — have the highest overall bank exposure to Greece, according to the Bank for International Settlements. They have begun to take writedowns on their Greek sovereign debt holdings as part of a new rescue package but some say not aggressively enough.

Greece vowed on Saturday to stay the course of austerity and avoid bankruptcy as anger at the country’s failure to meet fiscal targets under its EU/IMF bailout reached boiling point.

The three French banks and Moody’s declined to comment for this story. The agency said in June it was considering cutting BNP and Credit Agricole by one notch and SocGen by up to two notches because of the level of state aid it received in the past.

Moody’s long-term senior debt ratings for BNP, SocGen and Credit Agricole are respectively Aa2, Aa2 and Aa1, all assigning high grade creditworthiness.

A downgrade, though well-flagged, would be another reminder of deteriorating market sentiment as investors discount economic slowdown in Europe, tougher capital requirements on banks and the unfolding drama in Greece and the euro area.

Sovereign debt turmoil has crushed European banks’ share prices since the start of the summer and pushed up their cost of borrowing, especially from U.S. dollar money markets.

French banks, seen as particularly reliant on short-term funding, have been among the hardest hit. SocGen shares are down 57 percent since the end of June and are flirting with levels not seen since March 2009, when Europe was in recession.

SocGen, Credit Agricole and larger arch-rival BNP — which together held around 6 billion euros ($8 billion) of Greek sovereign debt at end-March — recently sought to reassure investors on their funding positions by giving extra disclosures on liquidity, but that has failed to stem the sell-off.

Some say the only way out is for Europe to recapitalize its battered banking sector to better absorb sovereign debt losses and to cope with tougher capital requirements. IMF chief Christine Lagarde has been a vocal proponent of such a measure.

(Additional reporting by Matthieu Protard; Editing by Ruth Pitchford)

Source: Reuters: Business News
    




Stark resignation limits Draghi’s room on bond buys


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:43:58 +0000


By Paul Carrel

FRANKFURT |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 9:46am EDT


FRANKFURT (Reuters) – By resigning in protest at the European Central Bank’s bond-buying programme, heavyweight policymaker Juergen Stark has increased the pressure on incoming ECB president Mario Draghi to use the plan sparingly.

The ECB announced on Friday that Stark, the top German at the ECB, will quit in what sources say is a protest against its policy of buying bonds to help troubled euro zone debtor states, with Italy now foremost among them.

Draghi, an Italian who takes over the ECB helm on November 1, can ill afford to be seen as going soft on his own country — especially when many in Germany, the euro zone’s biggest economy, are skeptical about the bond buys, his presidency and now the whole credibility of the ECB.

Draghi only emerged as favorite to succeed President Jean-Claude Trichet after the resignation earlier this year of Bundesbank chief Axel Weber, who, together with Stark, was one of the high priests of German central bank orthodoxy.

Stark’s surprise move has stirred debate about the bond-buy plan in Germany, with commentators expressing shock and fear about the direction of euro zone policy and fearing the move marks the end of an ECB made in the image of the Bundesbank.

His departure also raises scrutiny of Draghi, who courted the Germans to win their backing for the presidency and will not want to further alienate the ECB’s biggest constituent.

“It adds to the reasons for Draghi to be seen as being on the hawkish side — both on interest rates and bond buying,” said Berenberg bank economist Holger Schmieding.

“He will have to establish the credentials that Trichet had. The way to do this is to surprise people on the hawkish side.”

A euro zone central bank source said Stark felt Trichet’s departure when his term ends next month would mark the end of an era at the ECB.

Stark and Bundesbank head Jens Weidmann both opposed the ECB’s decision last month to reactivate the plan following a 19-week pause. The bank decided to buy the bonds of Italy and Spain after they came closer to succumbing to the debt crisis.

But the plan is seen by many here as taking the ECB into the fiscal arena and threatening its core role of fighting inflation. Weber’s opposition to the programme ultimately led to his resignation and Germany’s president has even questioned the legality of the plan.

STEPS TOO FAR FOR STARK

The ECB only decided to reactivate its bond programme after writing to Italy, laying out demands for action on consolidating the budget, although the exact terms of what it required have not been revealed.

It also resumed its bond buys on the understanding that a July euro zone deal meant the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) — the bloc’s rescue fund — could take over the bond buys after just a couple of months.

Euro zone leaders had hoped national parliaments would approve the EFSF reforms by early October but that goal appears to be slipping. A senior Slovak politician said last week that his country’s parliament would vote on the reform in December at the earliest, although the Slovak Finance Ministry urged lawmakers on Monday to act sooner.

This means the ECB could be left on the hook for longer — a scenario Trichet did not rule out when asked directly about such a possibility at the bank’s monthly news conference on Thursday.

Trichet also indicated that he was satisfied with the latest austerity measures of the Italian government, comments he made despite some ECB policymakers being concerned that by buying the sovereign bonds of Italy it is encouraging Rome to slacken efforts to shore up its finances.

These developments could not have pleased Stark.

“He is too rigid to accept that his line is not followed by the others. He has realized he was not in a position to influence the other ECB board members,” one central bank source said.

ASMUSSEN USHERED IN

Germany formally put forward its deputy finance minister, Joerg Asmussen, on Saturday to replace Stark. Asmussen is a Social Democrat but was kept by German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives after the last federal election due to the experience he had gained in fighting the financial crisis.

Bert Ruerup, former head of the ‘wisemen’ council of economic advisers to the German government told Reuters Asmussen would be more pragmatic than Stark.

“I don’t think that he will fight as openly. This may calm down when the EFSF gets the power to buy bonds,” he said.

Either way, economists expect Stark’s departure to have little influence on ECB monetary policy. Although he holds the powerful economics portfolio on the six-member Executive Board, he is just one of 23 voices on the bigger Governing Council.

The ECB signaled on Thursday that it had halted a cycle of interest rate rises begun just five months ago, saying euro zone inflation risks were no longer skewed to the upside and economic growth would be slow at best.

This change of tone opened the door to an interest rate cut in the eyes of some economists.

“If Trichet waits then Draghi will face making that decision in his first meeting as ECB President in November,” said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, head of foreign exchange strategy at UBS, who pointed to research showing changes in central bank governors have had a pronounced impact on financial markets.

“This is clearly shaping up to be the case now at the ECB, making the euro a sell on rallies even after this month’s sharp decline,” he said.

(Additional reporting by Annika Breidthardt and Giselda Vagnoni, editing by Mike Peacock)

Source: Reuters: Business News
    




Italians dump mussel shells to protest austerity


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 01:43:56 +0000



ROME |
Sat Sep 10, 2011 3:15pm EDT


ROME (Reuters) – Demonstrators dumped mussel shells in front of Italy’s parliament on Saturday, accusing politicians of squeezing workers with an austerity package while clinging to their privileges like mussels cling to rocks.

The several hundred demonstrators were led by popular Italian comedian Beppe Grillo, who has become an anti-establishment cult figure because of his campaigns against Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and the center-right government.

“I am going to dump these here, in the biggest waste dump of mussels, that is, our parliament. I am hoping they will eventually go away,” Grillo said as he led the demonstrators to parliament from a rally in nearby Piazza Navonna.

The mussel shells had names of parliamentarians written on them.

Italians have increasingly been demanding that the political class take its share of the pain by renouncing perks and privileges, such as subsidized lunches and haircuts, free flights and generous pension and health benefits.

Italy’s lower house of parliament will begin debating the government’s 54 billion euro package of revised austerity measures on Monday before a vote later in the week.

The program, aimed at balancing the budget by 2013, was approved in the Senate on Wednesday following mounting pressure on Italian government bonds and growing impatience among Rome’s European partners.

The package, agreed after multiple changes, includes a 1 percentage point hike in value-added tax, adjustments to pension rules and a special 3 percent levy on incomes over 300,000 euros ($422,000) as well as cuts to government spending.

(Reporting by Antonio Denti and Cristiano Corvino; Editing by Philip Pullella and Peter Graff)

Source: Reuters: Business News
    






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


