Weight Watchers works, study finds - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour BeautyVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to School


Trending Now»Weight WatchersJessica SimpsonFamily budgetsAli LohanInfidelity



















Weight Watchers works, study findsAFP – Thu, 8 Sep, 2011 5:10 AM EDT

Adults referred to the commercial weight loss programme Weight Watchers shed twice as much weight as people who received standard care over a 12-month period, according to a study published Thursday.
In clinical trials, researchers led by Susan Jebb of the UK Medical Research Council assessed 772 overweight and obese adults in Australia, Germany, and Britain.
About half the patients received a year's standard care, while the other half were given a 12-month free membership for a Weight Watchers group near their homes.
Sixty-one percent of the participants assigned to the commercial programme completed it, while 51 percent of the "standard care" group finished their programme.
Overall, individuals in Weight Watchers lost around twice as much weight as did those in the other group, a mean loss of 5.1 kilograms versus 2.2. Among those who stuck with either programme to the end, the figures were 6.7 against 3.3 kg, respectively.
Participants randomised to Weight Watchers were also more than three times as likely to lose at least five percent of their bodyweight, said the study, published in The Lancet.
Weight Watchers offers weekly weighing and group support. It also promotes a balanced, reduced-energy diet along with increased physical activity.
Primary care providers -- sometimes nurses, sometimes doctors -- generally offer weight-loss treatment in line with national guidelines, but vary in the level of supervision.
"The similar weight losses achieved in Australia, Germany, and the UK implies that this commercial programme, in partnership with primary care providers, is a robust intervention that is generalisable to other economically developed countries," the researchers concluded.
The researchers emphasised the important role of family doctors and primary health-care providers in giving advice, and in making referrals to commercial weight-loss programmes.
"Further research is needed to examine long-term weight loss maintenance, together with a formal analysis of cost-effectiveness," they added.







All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        118 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













Joe
2 hours ago

My ex lost a lot of weight (before I hooked up with her), so I can say without a doubt that it works




 








James
6 hours ago

just go to sparkpeople website and get the same effect and an exercise plan for free




 








kapt_kan
8 hours ago

The only diet that really works is the one we were DESIGNED for: the hunter-gatherer diet of our ancestors, also called the "paleo" diet.  We weren't designed to eat cereal grains, legumes, and masses of salt and sugar.  I lost about 30 pounds of fat while eating LOTS of food -- but it's all food we were meant to eat.  Google "The Paleo Solution" and/or "Robb Wolf" and/or "Dr Mercola".  It only makes sense to eat what you were designed to eat and to live as much as possible as we were designed to live.  [Hint: get off your huge fat ass and go for a long WALK.]




 








'
8 hours ago

Ive gone from 155-215 in my lifetime. Now those women and men 200-500 and +. ONly you know the process. I eat too much at a sitting or get in the cycle and know im eating too much and get tired, too much sllep and keep craving more, repeat. But once iu start exercising for an hour a day escepially the nordictrack or eliptical i have unlimtied energy for 2 days. I lost 40 lbs in 2 months by eating 3 meals fist of steak or chicken and fist of rice and maybe  2 handfuls of jellbean kind of things. I didnt eat after 7pm but i was unemployed so now im goign to work and joined a gym and doing the eliptical 700 calories for an hour but its hard because im burning more calories standing for 7 hoursx 60 hr plus the moving 50 an hour 420+350 = resting metabolic rate at my weight is like 2000 im 30% overweight so 2000-770+ im eating 990 calories are and its 'unhealthy' foods. But i dont loose any weight if i dont exercise after and everday. Now if youre obese i dont know that feels like not socially the process and cravings obviously its not right or you wouldnt be that heavy, so it has to be the food lack of execrcise and chemical imablance in the brain combined. Theres not a licensed nutrionist in the US. Thats a fact.




 








lareinaloca
10 hours ago

PORTION CONTROL.  We have lost as minds as far as what a "portion" is.  Go buy yourself a cheap scale and start weighing your food.  Buy cheap plastic measuring spoons and cups at a dollar store.  Start weighing your food and be completely flabbergasted at what a CUP of pasta looks like.  How big is 3 to 4 ozs of meat?  How much is 1/2 cup of rice?  Yeah, no wonder we have an obesity crisis on this continent.  People are enormous and our children are brutally overweight.




 








Robert Miller
11 hours ago

Banging a hooker one hour after each meal will keep you lean.
   One of life's little pleasures.




 









11 hours ago

People think that calories in = calories out...but not so.  A reduced caloric intake could signal your brain that you're starving yourself, which would actually lower your metabolism and make you retain the fat.  Fuel the fire and eat tiny amounts througout the day, making sure to have around 1300-1500 calories a day.  If you do this and get regular exercise (1/2 hour of cardio and 20 minutes of weights three days a week), you will see inches melting away.  The weight will take a little while longer, as you will gain muscle mass at first (muscle weighs more than fat).  If you want to lose weight quickly, get a personal trainer.  It's the easiest (albeit most expensive) way to go.




 








brentg
12 hours ago

why do scientist waste money doing stupid studies. they show me that they dont have what it takes to bring anything useful to the table. i should do a study about wasting money.




 








LiveLife2theFullest
13 hours ago

Problem:  1) The study is biased as it's funded by Weight Watchers.  2) There are no statistics showing the percentage of people who have actually kept the weight off after 4-5 years.  3) Scientific research shows that weight loss goes hand in hand with healthy eating and "EXERCISE".  So, get off the couch and start taking walks, use the stairs, work out, and play some sports.
If you want to spend money to effectively lose weight, hire a fitness trainer from a gym.




 








12know
13 hours ago

Weight loss success and maintenance is based on a mindset from the beginning that you want to lose that weight once and for all.  You cannot let anything deter you from that goal.  Plus, you need to be sure that you are losing weight for health reasons, not as a way to improve your social life, get a better job, finding a mate, etc.  When you reach your goal, you will need to monitor you weight on a regular basis (at least once a week) because there is a significant chance all of that weight and then some could return.




 








Dontblameme
14 hours ago

The premise upon which this study was based is flawed - doctors of any kind know SQUAT about weight loss and how to keep people motivated, so in my opinion, it was like comparing apples with rotten peaches.  Keeping it off is key over a substantial period of time so it has to be a change in mindset, not just what shows up on a scale every week.  Owners of WW franchises are MILLIONAIRES because people drop out and keep coming back to give it one more try.

As for the Jennifer Hudson ads, guess who had personal counseling and a personal trainer, too!   She did not go it alone as part of "run of the mill" group meetings run by less than inspiring leaders - and having someone on your arse to keep your exercise program going - now that is a luxury the average person cannot afford.




 








Sierra
15 hours ago

weight watchers does work, but it's like every other weight loss program in that the trick is keeping the weight off. there are lots of "effective" ways to loose weight, not so many to help in keeping it off.....




 








lucille  jones
17 hours ago

stop eating porky piggy's.save food and money.




 








KathieB
17 hours ago

Weight Watchers is the only program that has helped me over the years.  I lost 47 lbs. 10 years ago on it and kept half of it off.  Slowly over those 10 years of not continuing to attend the meetings or to track what I ate I gained a couple of pounds a year until I had gained half of it back.  I went back on WW 17 months ago and lost the 24 I had gained and have kept it off for almost a year now.  Weight Watchers is an education more than a diet.  When you learn how many points different foods have it's a matter of substituting good tasting lower point foods for good tasting high point foods.  I go out to dinner every night of the week and the only exercising I do is some walking.  If this program works for me it can work for you too!




 








Erin B
18 hours ago

yes, it works but you never get to eat (and drink!) what you really want.  You have to reprogram your brain to think of food as something to fill the hole, not something to be relished.  Sad but true - I am on WW right now.




 








yahoo user
19 hours ago

they kicked me out of Jenny Craig :(....cause i tried too eat her




 








Jo-Anne
19 hours ago

WW, like ANY diet program works if you DO it.  I agree for many on this (or any) program the battle isn't won just by losing the weight, it's keeping it off.....forever.  I was successful on WW once many years ago, but have put the weight back on through the years due to many things, not not just being a "big fat eating piggy" as so many here are incorrectly (and quite cruelly) posting.  Menopause, medical issues, emotional, intermittent lack of excercise, shift work....add to the 20 pounds I carry and hope to kick to the curb. I've trained and run a marathon and join many charitable walks and eat healthy.  It's finding what works for you and if WW happens to be one of the positive things that works for you, why dismiss it?




 








Rebecca
20 hours ago

Bogus food, means bogus results. Its all bloody soy shaped and colored to look like food. GMO soy chock full of phytoestrogens which no one needs. You lose weight but you are not remotely healthy.




 








morweena
20 hours ago

Wow what a bunch of asses these folks are - and us "fatties" may kick you judemental all- yeah I'm overweight but I can run a 1/2 marathon - can you gym monkey?
Yes some overweight people have no control and some thin folks can't say no to a drink - we ALL have bad habits - WW, Jenny Craig, whatever they try and teach portion control and healthy eating and the have a positive reinforcement aspect that helps people.
 Do they work? I'm down 60 lbs and took up distance running so you tell me




 








A nony mouse
20 hours ago

Weight Watchers works, study finds, written by a journalist who must be sitting on a ton of WTW stock which is off about 30 bucks from its 52 week high and is trying to pump up the stock. Weight watchers doesnt work, fatties have no will power.








   More
                        



 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …
Celebrities who were bullied as kids

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesThreesomes And GirlfriendsAskmen - 7 hours agoBargain Saturday: 6 Ways to Fake a HeadboardHGTV - 21 hours agoEmpathy In RelationshipsAskmen - Sat, 10 Sep, 2011 12:00 AM EDTShame plates: Is this fat-shaming dinnerware funny or troubling?Shine - Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 2:21 PM EDTToast to a long life! One drink a day is good for womenShine - Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 2:15 PM EDT

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play VideoStudents Who Shared 9/11 With  …
Play Video9/11 Babies: 10 Years Later
Play VideoBoosting Your Immune System
Play Video'Intervention Canada' tackles impacts …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 40prevnext
6.7-magnitude quake hits Vancouver Island
Will and Kate's favourite Canadian spot
Ponytail costs athlete a championship
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
Five photos you should not post online















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending NowWeight WatchersJessica SimpsonFamily budgetsAli LohanInfidelity










© 2011 AFP



                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















