ZME Science - powered by FeedBurner
&



ZME Science

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get ZME Science delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Royal Observatory gives out annual awards for astronomy photography – Jupiter wins top prize


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 12:12:30 +0000
It’s already the third year in which the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, London is hosting the Astronomy Photographer of the Year competition, and the winner has been chosen out of some 800 entries. Categories were ‘Earth and Space’, ‘Our Solar System’, ‘Deep Space’ and ‘Young Astronomy Photographer of the Year’, and there was also an award for best newcomer.

The winning picture of Jupiter and two moons, Io and Ganmyede, was taken by UK photographer Damian Peach.

The Earth and Space winner, called ‘Galactic Paradise’ was taken by Tunç Tezel. What you are looking at is the southern Milky Way viewed over the hilltops lined with palm trees in the Cook Islands, near the village of Oneroa.

The ‘Deep Space’ winner was this mind blowing picture taken by Marco Lorenzi from Italy which depicts an intricate structure of the aftermath of a supernova explosion – the violent yet beautiful death of a star that took place over 10.000 years ago, seen over the stars and gas in the disc of our galaxy.

Young astronomer photographer of the year is Jathin Premjith from India, aged 15. The Moon here is red because it is lit only by light that has been filtered by passing through the Earth’s atmosphere.

At ‘People and Space’, this fantastic picture by Jeffrey Sullivan (USA) won. I’m sorry if I’m exaggerating with the adjectives, but there’s no other way to put it when you’re seeing such fascinating photographs.

This one won it for ‘Best Newcomer’. Harly Grady immortalized this zodiacal glow over a farm in Comanche, Texas. Visible only in extremely dark skies, zodiacal light results from sunlight reflecting off dust particles in our Solar System.

Again, we have Marco Lorenzi, only this time for ‘Robotic Telescope’. What you are looking at is three distant galaxies located in the constellation of Pisces.
All in all, ZME Science would like to give our warmest congratulations to all the participants, and we’d like to encourage even more people to enter this competition next year!
Source






Birth control pills affect memory, study finds


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 11:16:53 +0000
Women who use birth control pills or other contraceptives experience memory changes, according to a study conducted by UC Irvine researchers. They tend to remember emotional events more vividly, at the cost of losing their attention for details.

“What’s most exciting about this study is that it shows the use of hormonal contraception alters memory,” UCI graduate researcher Shawn Nielsen said. “There are only a handful of studies examining the cognitive effects of the pill, and more than 100 million women use it worldwide.”
She stressed that it does not damage memory, but rather modify the kind of information that is easier to remember. The change makes sense, according to Nielsen, who works with neurobiologist Larry Cahill, because contraceptives suppress sex hormones such as estrogen and progesterone in order to prevent an unwanted pregnancy.
“This new finding may be surprising to some, but it’s a natural outgrowth of the research we’ve been doing on sex differences for 10 years,” Cahill said.
“Larry Cahill is already well known for his phenomenal research linking sex to memory,” said Pauline Maki, professor of psychiatry and psychology at the University of Illinois at Chicago, who specializes in memory and brain functioning. “The fact that women on oral contraceptives remembered different elements of a story tells us that estrogen has an influence on how women remember emotional events.”
In the study, groups of women off and on the pill were shown photographs of a mother, her son, and a car accident, all during a recorder naration, but which was different for some groups. After a week, without being announed, they were given surprise tests to see what they can recall. Women off the pill remembered more details, such as a fire hydrant next to the car, while women on the pill remembered more clearly the main steps in the traumatic even.
Via Science Daily






India – Pakistan border is so bright it can be seen from outer space (shorties)


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 11:00:37 +0000

Taken from outer space, this dazzling picture shows that the border between India and Pakistan unlike it has ever been seen before. The stunning picture taken from the International Space Station also shows busy cities as bright clusters hundreds of miles apart.
The indian government made this decision toerect floodlights along the terrain separating India and Pakistan in the Gujarat in order to stop or at least damper the rising traffic and smuggling between the two countries. In total, the Indian government plans to cover 2009 km out of the 2900 km which make up the entire border between the two countries.

You can see Islamabad, Pakistan, towards the bottom of the piture and New Delhi, India, at the top. The city closest to the border is the Pakistan town of Lahore.
Source






Invisible planet discovered


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 15:58:10 +0000
Kepler 19c, an invisible world, was discovered solely through the gravitational influence it has on its companion world, Kepler 19b. Nothing else is known about it, other that it exists.

When you’re five minutes late, a lot of bad things can happen. You can miss an appointment, lose reservations, or just annoy people; but when you’re a planet and you’re 5 minutes late, you’re hiding something – another celestial body. NASA’s Kepler spacecraft has spotted a planet that alternately runs late and early because a second planet is tugging and pulling it.
“This invisible planet makes itself known by its influence on the planet we can see,” said astronomer Sarah Ballard of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA). Ballard is lead author on the study, which has been accepted for publication in The Astrophysical Journal. “It’s like having someone play a prank on you by ringing your doorbell and running away. You know someone was there, even if you don’t see them when you get outside,” she added.
The Kepler spacecraft will continue to monitor Kepler-19 throughout its mission. Those additional data will help nail down the orbit of Kepler-19c. Future ground-based instruments like HARPS-North will attempt to measure the mass of Kepler-19c. Only then will we have a clue to the nature of this invisible world.
Via Physorg






Behind today’s cyborg technology – reality more closer to fiction than you think


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 15:52:59 +0000
Biomechanics has come a long way during the past few decades, on trend with the exponential growth of CPUs and electronics, in general. Articulated limbs or artificial optic units are just a few of today’s options that individuals with various impairments and disabilities can use to make their lives closer to normal. Limitations exist of course, but they’re only imposed by technology which is constantly growing at an exponential rate.
Deus Ex: Human Revolution is the most exiting video game to come out in a long time, impressing through gameplay, graphics and story line. The setting of Deus Ex is that of a 2027 dystopian Earth where the world is dominated by corporations and humans are addicted to cyborg components and upgrades provided by them. The cyborgs in the video game Deus Ex, half-human/half machine, are capable of extraordinary things once with they’re new found biomechanical upgrades. But how far are we today from Deus Ex’s extraordinary cyborg concepts?
I’m pretty sure some of you will be extremely surprised by the level of technology and capabilities cybernetic modifications is at in present day. Rob Spence, a present day cyborg and filmmaker known as the Eyeborg, worked with Square Enix to shoot an incredible documentary which references today’s fast paced cyborg industry.
Left without an eye after a dreadful shotgun accident, Spence now has a biomechanical eye implant made. In the documentary, Spence, the perfect host, speaks to other extremely interesting persons who’ve had various modifications. As scientists and engineers work to bring these mechanical modifications to replace the natural missing part, whether it’s a leg, arm, eye, whatever, the temptation to actually bring enhancements and improvements is there. When confronted with the possibility of upgrading your current physical and even intellectual abilities via cybernetic implants, a lot of people might be compelled to opt for them.
The premise is there for a real Deus Ex world in the future, hopefully without the downfalls. Spence explores all these exiting concepts in his documentary, Deus Ex: The Eyeborg Documentary, which can be viewed in its entirety right below.  This is recommended viewing.

via SingularityHub






World’s first commercial spaceport is 90% complete. First sub-orbital flight by 2013.


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 14:44:21 +0000
An artist impression of Spaceport America, under construction in New Mexico. (c) Vyonyx Ltd
Virgin Galactic, Virgin’s commercial space flight branch, just recently announced that the first phase in the construction of the world’s first spaceport available to civilian consumers has been completed, making the ambitious project 90% complete.
‘Spaceport America’, as it’s been dubbed, is being built on an 18,000 acre site in the desolate sand plains of New Mexico, 45 miles of Las Cruces. Its nearly two-mile long, 200-foot wide runway-or “spaceway” is already complete, while the space-age looking terminal hangar is almost ready.
The spaceport, according to Virgin officials, is just months away from being completely ready, when the second phase in its inception will be done as well. The second phase, already in motion, is comprised in the completion of the Vertical Launch Complex facility, two visitor centres in nearby towns and a further visitor centre on the main spaceport site.
Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo is shown on its maiden flight from the Mojave Air and Spaceport in Mojave, California in March 22, 2010. (c) Reuters
This will put the spaceport well on track for its 2013 goal of housing the launch of the first commercial sub-orbital flight from the site – the first in many to taxi wealthy individuals literary around the world. Virgin is already taking reservations for its two-hour flights into sub-orbital space, for a price tag of US$200,000. After being launched 10 miles into space, thrill-seekers will experience about five minutes of weightlessness and look at the curvature of the earth, among other incredible percs.
These sub-orbital flights will be made on-board Virgin Galactic’s mothership and spaceship (White Knight 2 and Space Ship 2), which are still in the test phase, so far performing wonderfully.  The whole concept is pioneering in nature, and as such the prospects for the future of this promising looking industry are very bright. Surely, commercial space flight will be very interesting to follow.






Arctic sea ice volume at record low in 2010


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:57:11 +0000
Undated handout photo shows NASA scientists collecting data from thawing Arctic ice during the U.S. agency's ICESCAPE mission in July. (c) Kathryn Hansen, NASA
The arctic ice volume recorded last fall was the lowest ever since the first satellite reports were introduced, according to data furnished  by a new study which used complicated weather modeling, ocean observations, submarine data, and space-age monitoring.
“Sea ice volume is an important climate indicator,” said the team of scientists from  Polar Science Center of the University of Washington, who further explains here. “It depends on both ice thickness and extent and therefore more directly tied to climate forcing than extent alone. However, Arctic sea ice volume cannot currently be observed continuously.  Observations from satellites, Navy submarines, moorings, and field measurements are all limited in space and time.”
The melt season for Arctic sea ice climaxes each September or October, and many people closely track the satellite generated reports and analysis of sea ice extent by the National Snow and Ice Data Center. This year’s ice volume quite probably will be even thinner than the one reported last year, the current record holder for all time lows, since current data indicates arctic ice volumes plummeting a more rapid pace than last year.
Interestingly enough, as of July 31, this year, the last time numbers were crunched and posted online, the volume of sea ice appeared to be about 2,135 cubic miles — more than 50 percent lower than the average volume and 62 percent lower than the maximum volume of ice that covered the Arctic back in 1979, researchers said here. Those are very frightening figures, one which could lead to massive sea level rise  and weather disruption in the near future.
Called “Uncertainty in Modeled Arctic Sea Ice Volume”, the highly technical discussion recently published in the Journal of Geophysical Research tackles the current arctic melting crisis and offers insight on how scientists calculate, monitor and reality check the ongoing volume of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean using their Pan-arctic Ice Ocean Modeling and Assimilation System.






The fish with the transparent head


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:41:06 +0000
Just a short, offbeat fact, to remind us of the mind blowing mysteries which dwell hundreds or thousands of meters beneath the ocean waves: Macropinna microstoma, the only species of the genus Macropinna lives at about 600-800 meters below sea level. It has a small mouth, is covered almost entirely with scales, and it has a fluid filled transparet head, which allows lenses of its eyes to be seen.

MBARI researchers Bruce Robison and Kim Reisenbichler observed that when prey such as small fish and jellyfish are spotted, the eyes rotate like binoculars, facing forward as it turns its body from a horizontal to a vertical position to feed. However, this fish has been documented in 1939, but nobody knew about its amazing features, because the head is destroyed when brought to the surface from the depths.







Fossil trove sheds some light on the ‘missing link’


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:32:10 +0000
Paleontologists in South Africa have reported finding an extraordinary number of fossils of a species that predated humans, belonging to the prehuman species Australopithecus Sediba that lived almost 2 million years ago.
Prof. Lee Berger with the Australopithecus sediba cranium.
The species had human-like hands and ape-like feet; it was found in a rearkable collection of fossils which includes the most complete early human hand found so far, and it can shed some light on an era of evolution which hasn’t been documented that much, due to the lack of specimens to analyze.
From head to toe, the species screams ‘part of missing link’. Scientists found an unexpected patchwork of primitive and advanced traits: tiny skulls, long arms and diminutive bodies, all unevolved features, while on the other hand the hands, ankles and pelvis are surprisingly modern.
They had a brain about as big as a grapefruit, and a model based on a 3D X-Ray scan of the fossilized cranium suggested that it was in the stage of becoming more and more advanced, displaying what can be interpreted as the first glimpse of complex intelectual activities.
“It’s as if evolution is caught in one vital moment, a stop-action snapshot of evolution in action,” said paleoanthropologist Richard Potts, director of the Smithsonian Institution’s Human Origins Program, who wasn’t involved in the discoveries.
Click it for full size.

Currently, a team of no less than 80 researchers is working on the matter, led by Lee Berger of the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
“They do represent a model that could lead to the genus Homo,” Dr. Berger said.
However, the matter is not without controversy (as always, in this type of case).
“Just because it shares a bit of anatomical morphology with Homo does not mean it is Homo or ancestral to Homo,” said anthropologist Bernard Wood at George Washington University. “It looks increasingly that these bits of morphology are appearing more than once, independently, in the tree of life.”
Even so, regardless of their part in the tree of life, the bones are extremely valuable.
“This is an incredible trove for anything that early in time,” said anthropologist Ian Tattersal, at the American Museum of Natural History, in New York.
So far, they have discovered 220 bones from skeletons of five individuals, including infant, juvenile and adult remains representing both sexes, dating 1.977 million years old, based on uranium decay analysis. The findings also point out that evolution is much more convoluted than we usually believe it to be – especially thank to the pelvis, which is “the most human-like” ever discovered among a prehuman species, according to Dr. Berger.
“This hand is wonderful. The foot is fine. And the pelvis is spectacular,” said anthropologist Philip Rightmire at Harvard University’s Peabody Museum. “Evolution is more convoluted than we thought.”
Source






Equipment and tracks left behind by the Apollo missions visible in new Moon pictures


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:11:08 +0000
These new pictures revealed by NASA reveal fascinating evidence that humans were there; even though they don’t offer detail quality pictures, they offer more detail than any other pictures taken by the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is now circling the moon.
Apollo 17 landing site
As it orbited the satellite and flew over landing sites of the Apollo 12, 14 and 17 missions, the orbiter took pictures of numerous items and trails, including footprints of all six astronauts that stepped on the Moon during three missions, as well as Apollo 17′s Lunar Roving Vehicle tracks (the vehicle itself is visible as a small dot in one photograph) and equipment from the descent stages of lunar modules and cables running to two instruments from the Apollo Lunar Surface Experiments Package left behind by Apollo 12 astronauts. The three missions in case are Apollo 12 (1969), Apollo 14 (1971) and Apollo 17 (1972).
Via NASA








FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


