2007  February | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Satellite To Cell Phone Fire Alarms
Comments Off






Using a combination of MODIS and METEOSAT South African power company Eskom is able to pinpoint fires threatening their power lines.
““What is particularly nice about this is all of our field staff have mobile phones,” says Vosloo. They can be out in the field, away from their computers and still get the fire alert. “The system is set up so that a particular field personnel would only get the information that they would need for their lines. If they get a notification, they can phone the local land owner and inquire about the extent of the fire,” explains Vosloo. “Then the person will say, ‘Don’t worry, I’m just burning some old maize,’ or sometimes they might say ‘This is a fire, and it’s running away, and we can’t control it.’”
If a fire is large and out-of-control near power lines, the field person notifies the national control center, who also receives the alerts, to confirm that the fire is a threat to the power lines. If backup lines are available, the control center can then divert power away from the affected lines until the fire is controlled…” earthobservatory.nasa.gov

Here is another example of satellite based fire monitoring linked to email alerts. Diane Davies of the University of Maryland developed an email alert system emailing fire locations from the university’s MODIS-based Web Fire Mapper to individuals in remote areas.“Davies has expanded the system into a global fire alert system that automatically emails subscribers whenever there is a fire near their area of interest. By January 2007, the global system, called the Fire Information for Resource Management System, or FIRMS, had been operating for just a few months and already had 580 subscriptions. “We now have users in 60 countries,” says Davies.”




Posted by Mike
on 02/26/2007 •
		Filed under: fire alarms, fire alerts, satellite fire photos



Who Knew?
1 comment






An interesting tool that suggests the value of individual blogs. Since a good deal of my visitors are other bloggers I thought I would post the tool.

 My blog is worth $6,209.94.How much is your blog worth?






Posted by Mike
on 02/26/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Sleek Fire Site; Grampian Fire And Rescue Service
Comments Off






In yesterday’s post on Shanghai Fire Service I pointed out how difficult it was to get information on the department, personnel, equipment or individual stations. Today I found a model fire service website from the Aberdeen City, Scotland area.  Grampian Fire website is clean, well organized and built for easy navigation. The page I like most is the  interactive map page.  Grampian Fire and Rescue services an area of about 800,000 residents.  Shanghai China Fire services roughly 14 million residents.




Posted by Mike
on 02/24/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Shanghai Firefighters In Training
Comments Off






Physical training, recreation and maintaining a cohesive unit. This China Daily article has some interesting photos of the Shanghai.I have found it difficult to find decent information on city fire departments in China.  Compared to the vast information available in the Western world China’s fire service personnel are still underserved on the web.  Their training, dedication and skills should be shared with the rest of the world. Internet growth in China is running along the lines or 10,000 new users per day so personal web pages published by firefighters should follow.Back to Shanghai, I was very surprised there was not much official information available but I did run across a website that provides a brief description of Shanghai Fire
From Tales of Old Shanghai.“Fire Brigade
The crowding of the Settlements with cheaply constructed Chinese houses during the period of the rebellion added to the danger of fire. In order to cope with this menace fire wells were sunk in the main thoroughfares to serve as reservoirs for water. Before the introduction of a system of waterworks, these fire wells, the creeks, and the river were the only available sources upon which the one fire engine could draw. This engine was imported from the United States in 1863 by the Courcil, and formed the nucleus of a voluntary fire brigade service >organized in 1866. Captain J. P. Roberts was elected first Chief Engineer, and Mr. C. J. Ashley, foreman of the Mih-ho-oong (destroy fire dragon) Hook and Ladder Company. The French joined heartily in the enterprise and the three Settlements worked in complete harmony.
The Brigade was not at first under the control of the Municipal Council, and, as it was largely supported by the Insurance Companies, was not a great drain on municipal resources.
Fire alarms were in the beginmng given by the ringing of the church bell and the firing of three guns from the senior man-of-war in port, and the ringing of the bells of the steamers in harbour. Owing to the fact that the church bell could not be heard distinctly, a tower was erected at the Hongkew Police Station, and one of the church bells not in use was lent by the trustees as a fire alarm.
In 1880 a large bell weighing 5,150 pounds was purchased from the Meneely Founders of West Troy, N.Y. The bell had been cast in 1865 and was obtained at the low cost of $1,500 gold. It was hung in the 100-feet high tower erected at the Central Fire Station on Shantung Road and the one in use there was transferred to the tower at the Hongkew Police Station. Some time after bells ceased to be used for fire alarms, the large bell purchased in 1880 was moved to Jessfleld Park and mounted on a stone pedestal in front of a small Chinese pavilion where it may now be seen.
The second and third articles of the constitution of the voluntary Shanghai Fire Department read as follows:
“Article 11 – The Shanghai Fire Department is instituted for the better preservation of all property exposed to conflagration and its motto shall be ‘We Fight the Flames.’
“Article 111 – That the American, English and French Settlements be known respectively as Fire Districts Nos. 1, 2, and 3, and the operations of the S. F. D. shall be within the foreign settlements of Shanghai, and these limits shall not be passed except in cases of urgent necessity, and by order of the Chief Engineer.”
The Fire Brigade played an important part in the life of the Settlements. The young men took up the service with considerable eagerness and enjoyed the excitement and the social life connected with it. Some of them lived at the fire stations, so as to be on hand when alarms were given, and no matter what social functions they might be attending, at the sound of the fire bell, they rushed off so as to be at their stations as quickly as possible. There was keen competition among the different units as to which would reach the scene of the fire first.
As we shall see later, owing to the extension of the Settlement area and to great increase in the number of fires, it became necessary to abandon the voluntary system, and to introduce in its place a paid fire brigade,with a trained Chief Officer at its head, appointed by the Municipal Council…”




Posted by Mike
on 02/24/2007 •
		Filed under: China fire departments, fire service history, foreign fire brigades



Firedog's Newest Contest
Comments Off








Study Reveals U.S.  Firefighters Face Critical Equipment and Training Shortages

 
“firedogSM Across America” Contest Challenges  Communities to Win Funds for Their Local Firehouses
 
Richmond, Va. – A recent study from the U.S. Fire Administration, a  division of the Department of Homeland Security, reveals that many firehouses  across the U.S. lack adequate funding for some  of the most essential firefighting tools. 
 
Among the greatest needs are  communications equipment, protective gear and training. To call attention to the many ways  firefighters contribute to their communities and to help promote awareness of  their long list of needs, Circuit City’s new firedogSM services brand  recently launched “firedogSM Across America”  - http://web.firedog.com/acrossamerica.   The national online essay contest invites Americans  to nominate their local firefighters for outstanding service and the chance to  win $550,000 in much needed donations. 
 
“Firefighters risk their lives  everyday to protect us. However, as  the U.S. Fire Administration study indicates, many firehouses are in serious  need of additional resources,” said Peter C. Weedfald, senior vice president and  chief marketing officer, Circuit City Stores, Inc. “Through ‘firedogSM Across  America,’ we hope not only to demonstrate our appreciation for firefighters’  dedicated service, but also promote awareness across the country of their  equipment and training needs.”
 
The 2006 U.S. Fire Administration  study — “Four Years Later – A Second Needs Assessment of the U.S. Fire Service”  — was co-authored by the National Fire Protection Agency. Based on responses from more than 15,000  firehouses nationwide, the results indicate a serious need in the areas of  equipment and training. Findings  indicate that an estimated:
 
• 65 percent of fire departments do not have enough portable radios to  equip all emergency responders on a shift.
• 60 percent of fire departments do not have enough self-contained  breathing apparatus to equip all firefighters on a shift. 
• 66 percent of departments have at least some personal protective clothing  that is at least 10 years old. 
• 14 percent of departments protecting communities with populations less  than 2,500 have no ladder/aerial apparatus but have at least one building four  stories high or higher in the community.
• 36 percent of fire departments deliver emergency medical services (EMS),  but have not provided formal EMS training to  all involved personnel.
• 63 percent of fire departments involved in wildland firefighting have not  provided formal training in those duties to all involved  personnel.
 
The full needs assessment is  available online through the U.S. Fire Administration at: http://www.usfa.dhs.gov/fireservice/grants/needs-assess2.shtm.   
 
“With more than 1.1 million  firefighters working in the United States, chances are that most  Americans have benefited in some way from the dedicated services of their local  firehouse,” Weedfald said. “By  sharing their experiences with these everyday heroes through the ‘firedogSM  Across America’ essay contest, Circuit City will ensure that 10 fire stations  receive the additional funds they need to continue serving and protecting their  communities.”
 
How “firedogSM Across America”  works:
 
• December 6, 2006 – March 31, 2007: Americans are invited to submit essays  at www.firedog.com that describe how their local firehouse or firefighters went  above and beyond in helping them or their community.
• April 28, 2007 – The 10 winning essays will be announced. Each finalist  firehouse will receive a prize of $20,000. The authors of each winning essay will receive a home “techover” valued  at $10,000, courtesy of firedogSM.
• April 28, 2007 – May 13, 2007: Americans will be invited to vote at  www.firedog.com for one story among the 10 finalists that most inspires  them. For each vote received  online, Circuit  City will make a matching  donation up to $250,000, to be distributed proportionally among the finalists  based on the number of votes cast.
• May 14, 2007 – The firehouse with the most votes will be awarded a grand  prize of $100,000. 
 
The “firedogSM Across America”  campaign has already lent a helping hand to firefighters with its recent  contribution of $100,000 to the FDNY Foundation in New York City at a ceremony  held Dec. 6 at the Ladder 3/Battalion 6 firehouse. As part of that campaign kick-off,  Circuit  C
ity also donated $100,000  to the National Law Enforcement and Firefighters Children’s Foundation.  Additional information about “firedogSM Across America” is available online at:  www.firedog.com. 
 
About  firedogSM
Circuit City Stores, Inc. launched  its firedogSM brand in response to a growing public demand for help with using  and enjoying electronic products. firedogSM provides a new level of personal computer services, home  theater installations and integration of home electronics.
 
About Circuit City Stores,  Inc.
Circuit City Stores, Inc. (NYSE:CC)  is a leading specialty retailer of consumer electronics and related  services.  The domestic segment  operates through 645 Superstores and 12 other locations in 158 U.S.  markets. The international segment operates through more than 800 retail stores  and dealer outlets in Canada.  Circuit City also operates Web sites at  www.circuitcity.com, www.thesourcecc.ca and at  www.firedog.com.





Posted by Mike
on 02/22/2007 •
		Filed under: contests, Firedog, firehouse funding



Prolific Blogger Firefighter Wayne Hangs It Up
Comments Off






Firefighter Wayne author of Firefighter has filed his last blog.
Firefighter Wayne served on the Detroit Fire Department from 1962 to 1998, 36 years.  The stated goal of his blog was to “Promote The History Of Firefighting” and he did by posting interesting stories of historic fires and fire service trivia.  I aliked Wayne’s style, often caps locked with a straight forward delivery.  The cache will always remain indexed on the search engines so Wayne’s works will be recorded for all time.  Thanks Wayne, God bless.
Wayne posted 435 entries, nearly one per day beginning in October 2005.
Some gems from Wayne’s site.
“DO YOU KNOW
SOME OLD TIME BOSSES HID  PENNIES UNDER THE FENDERS OF THEIR RIG TO SEE IF THE DRIVER WASHED UNDER THERE.ALSO THEY PUT THEM ON WINDOW  AND DOOR LEDGES AND ON LOCKER TOPS TO TEST IF THE MEN DUSTED THERE
DO YOU KNOWIN THE EARLY DAYS, IN SOME COMMUNITIES, TO GET ON THEIR FIRE DEPARTMENTYOU DIDN’T: HAVE TO TAKE A PHYSICALFILL OUT AN APPLICATIONHAVE A BACKGROUND CHECKTAKE A WRITTEN TESTYOU DID:HAVE TO BE BETWEEN 21 & 35 YEARS OLDHAVE TO MEET WITH THE CHIEF( IF HE DEEMED YOU CAPABLE OF DOING THE JOB, YOU WERE HIRED.NOTE: ONE FACTOR WAS YOU HAD TO BE FIT ENOUGH TO SERVE IN THE ARMY
DO YOU KNOW
THE FIRST HOOK AND LADDER TRUCK THAT FORT WORTH TEXAS BOUGHT WAS SHIPPED BY TRAIN TO DALLAS.IT WAS THEN PULLED BY VOLUNTEER FIREMEN 40 MILES TO FORT WORTH.THE THINKING OF A TRUCK RATHER THEN A PUMPER WAS TO PULL DOWN THE SURROUNDING STRUCTURES RATHER THEN TRY TO EXTINGUISH THE ONE ON FIRE.
DO YOU KNOW
IN SOME COMMUNITIES, THEY HAD MANY OF ITS TOWNS FOLKS THAT OWNED HORSES.RATHER THEN HAVING THEIR DEPARTMENT OWNING OR RENTING HORSES FROM A STABLE,WOULD USE SOME OF THE TOWNS FOLKS HORSES AS THEY RESPONDED TO THE FIREHOUSE FOR AN ALARM.
DO YOU KNOW
WHAT IS “SKY JELLO”PINK FIRE RETARDANT CHEMICAL THAT IS DROPPED FROM PLANES ON A FOREST FIRE
DO YOU KNOW
THAT SOME OF THE EARLY FIRE ENGINES , THAT HAD BOOSTER TANKS WERE KEPT IN UNHEATED GARAGES.THEREFORE THE TANKS WERE KEPT EMPTY IN THE WINTER AND HAD TO BE QUICKLY FILLED UPON AN ALARM OF FIRE.”




Posted by Mike
on 02/18/2007 •
		Filed under: Firefighter Bloggers, Firefighter Blogs, Firefighter Wayne



Prepare Your Property For Fire Season
Comments Off






It’s the time of year Western home owners should address compliance with vegetation clearance ordinances. Fire Safe California’s do it yourself page offer tips and links for proper vegetation clearance.More than anything the clearance issue is a safety issue for fire service personnel.  If you don’t clear your property don’t expect fire crews to waste much time saving it, that’s a given.  What makes it dangerous for firefighters is when the fuel load from your property impacts your neighbor’s home, the one the firefighters are concentrating on.

Image from FireSafeCouncil.org




Posted by Mike
on 02/16/2007 •
		Filed under: brush clearance



Florida Firefighters Escape Death, "Nothing's Routine"
Comments Off






From News4Jax.com (link below)Firefighters Rescued From Burning Home
Firefighters Rescue Man, 2 Of Their Own From House Fire
“Typical investigation of smoke in the house. We came and there was a guy standing at the door, waving us in,” said firefighter Josh Covelli.However, the seemingly routine call quickly turned into a near-death experience for the crew of Jacksonville Fire Rescue’s crew of engine No. 2.”It didn’t sound like an explosion. It sounded like if you took a match and just whoosh,” said Jacksonville firefighter Steve Grant. “I’ve never seen anything like this, and I hope I never see it again.”What began as an investigation of smoke became a full-blown fire, with Covelli and Lt. Mark Kruger firefighters trapped inside. “He said he had found the fire.  So, we were getting the hose lines to get in the extinguisher,” said Kruger.
Covelli said he heard his lieutenant calling for him from a front room when the home became fully engulfed with flames and the fire cut him off.Covelli was able to escape through the back door, where ladder No. 1 was opening a passage.Kruger had no idea what had happened in the other rooms.”I was on fire and one of my friends, a lieutenant on ladder No. 1 actually beat me out and put me out,” Kruger said.He said his personal well-being was the least of his worries because Covelli had been in the house with no hose…..” More




Posted by Mike
on 02/14/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Break Glass & Kick Ass; Into The Fire
Comments Off






The History Channel today ran “Into The Fire” sponsored by the Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company. The show offers first hand accounts of firefighters and their thoughts on the realities of the job including the glamour, the hard work and the rewards of the job.
From the Fireman’s Fund site;“Into The Fire” is now available on DVD. For every DVD sold, Fireman’s Fund donates funds to the fire service. You can even designate a specific fire department to receive a portion of our donation.”
Actor Gary Sinise hosts the show and I have to say this might be the best production of its kind. It’s the best I’ve seen.   Everyone should see this video.
Oddly and sadly the History Channel does not have it scheduled to show again and for some reason doesn’t even have it featured on the home page. On a site search I was able to find a video clip that does little justice to the actual scene in the show.




Posted by Mike
on 02/11/2007 •
		Filed under: firefighter documentary



Aussie Mega Fires Contained After 69 Days
1 comment






Australian news service ABC.net.au reports the Great Divide fires have been contained.
“Victoria’s longest running bushfire has been declared contained after the Swifts Creek section of the fires, in the state’s south-east, was contained this morning.The Great Divide fires were started by lightning strikes in bushland 69 days ago.Farmers have lost stock, outbuildings, fencing and valuable fodder.More than one million hectares of land has been burnt. New Zealanders, Canadians and Americans joined more than 19,000 firefighters from across Australia to fight the blaze. The cost of the fire fight has blown out to more than $200 million. Firefighters now need to maintain control lines, patrolling and extinguishing any flare-ups and searching for hot spots.”
 




Posted by Mike
on 02/08/2007 •
		Filed under: Bush fires, Great Divide fires



IAFF Takes Proactive Stance On Trans Fats
Comments Off






From IAFF’s FoodFit.com:“It’s no surprise that fire fighting is one of the most dangerous of all professions, but the risks don’t always involve fires or other obvious hazards associated with fire fighting. The fact is, heart disease is the number-one cause of death – nearly half of on-duty fire fighter deaths are the result of cardiac arrest. Next to driving an engine, the most dangerous thing fire fighters do is eat. 
We are what we eat, and one of the biggest threats to your health comes from trans fats, artificially made fats that clog arteries and increase levels of bad cholesterol in your body – and which are linked to an increased risk of heart disease and diabetes……
What Are Trans Fats?
Made by combining liquid vegetable oil with hydrogen to create partially hydrogenated oil – or trans fatty acids – this man-made fat was originally developed to protect us against the health risks associated with butter. Turns out, trans fats act like butter once ingested. Think shortening and margarine. These fats are liquids turned solid, so instead of melting as they would in their natural state, they revert to their waxy, solid makeup inside your arteries. 
 Because trans fats are cheap and increase the shelf life of many processed foods, they get added to a wide variety of products, including chips, French fries, cookies, crackers, muffins and other baked goods….”




Posted by Mike
on 02/02/2007 •
		Filed under: firefighter diet, foodfit, iaff



First Responder Appreciation Day Promotion
Comments Off






First Response Coalition
 is making a push for a “National First Responder Appreciation Day”.  What a great idea, one that deserves support.  Check out the catchy video.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7QAdkEr86k]
Petition Page




Posted by Mike
on 02/02/2007 •
		Filed under: first responder appreciation day, first responders



Promotions Using FAKE Degrees
Comments Off






Makes a mockery of those who applied themselves and obtained REAL college degrees.Shameful!New York Times report
.




Posted by Mike
on 02/02/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 15 hrs ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 21 hrs ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 5 days ago
Per Wildlandfire.com  12 homes have been destroyed by the #CanyonFire   9,000 acres. Aircraft diverted to a new fire in L.A.County #CalFire 5 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras…

Early morning air to ground lighting has ignited 40 new fires in the Southern Sierra Nevada's and… (more)




9/11 Thoughts of Eric Lamar…

Ten years after, the number continues to defy believability in its astounding size.… (more)




Why am I even here?…

I've asked myself that question thousands of times since the attacks on our Nation back in 2001. My… (more)




9/11 Memorial Events In Northern IL…

9/11 AMERICAN FLAG MEMORIAL, 8 a.m. Sept. 11, Fountain View Pavilion at Sun City, 12880 Del Webb… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















