The New Rostra (rostra novum) a new blog: Fire and Rain: fiction ripped from the headlines



























































The New Rostra (rostra novum) a new blog



Forum modeled after ancient Rostra, where Cicero and other Romans spoke on a public platform. Dedicated to exploring ideas, writing, and advocacy in a digital age; this rostrum is not named for emperors like Caesar, as freedom of expression now springs from individuals and a laptop computer.




















Popular Posts









Double feature: episodes 8 & 9 of the storm chaser saga...
Fiction ripped from the headlines... ©Mark H. Pillsbury   "Texas Remains a Tinderbox": http://goo.gl/R0psZ   "Wildfires cause Fatigue": http...










irrelevancy kills
Don't know whether Lady Gaga is more talented than Madonna or whether Lady Gaga has leveraged the modern digital age like Google, YouTube, F...










Ahem... I am up on the rostra novum... Hello!
image credit: Brian Topp (the rostra vetera )   Just opened up a blogspot account for The New Rostra (rostra novum)  This is a forum where I...










Part one: Fire and Rain (fiction ripped from the headlines)
Part one: Fire and Rain (fiction ripped from the headlines)   ©Mark H. Pillsbury (2011)  [Some material may be deemed inappropriate for less...










Charlie Rose - An hour with David McCullough
Charlie Rose - An hour with David McCullough   Author David McCullough spent a career writing on Presidents and history for 45 years, winnin...





















































































Saturday, July 2, 2011





Fire and Rain: fiction ripped from the headlines





Audubon Magazine
Part Two: fiction ripped from the headlines...

The Fire Pounces

Rick felt at home in someone else’s bed, often he slept in the Tahoe. It was a pleasure to be unplugged and free to sleep-in, surprisingly he was dreaming about Mexico.

image credit: Mike Hollingshead, Eric Nguyen

Storm chasing was a young person’s game; it took the commitment of a professional athlete, constantly on the road, the pressure to sink the big shot, the same highs and lows of victory and defeat. An integral part of storm chasing was waiting, supplanted by quick bursts of energy and adrenaline. He loved it more than Jessica, but they both slept happily, peacefully for the first time in days. Dreamland was a bucolic scene that early morning in Texas, yet outside, roiled a fire as wild as any super-cell ever hunted, bearing down on the beautiful couple.

“Jess, get up!” Rick shook his partner. “Get up, I smell smoke.”
She was groggy, “Smoke?” Jessica was confused. “Is your phone on?” She asked.
He fumbled through his backpack; it was dead. “I think my battery is done! Damnit, all my stuff is out in the truck,” Rick responded. They were uneasy with the lingering smell of burning brush wafting through the house.

The rush to the Tahoe gave Rick no assurances, the smell of smoke was heavier, and as dawn broke there was a red glow on the horizon. Darkness cloaked the pyrocumulus cloud forming above. Jessica was already headed up the ranch road in flip-flops, Rick followed her, still waking up.

image: Garganta del diablo en Cozumel

Rick remembered “Devil’s Throat,” off the coast of Cozumel: Jessica was the first diver through the long coral tunnel over 100-feet below the surface, and heading up the ranch road seemed eerily similar; smoke formed a tunnel and at the entrance to the ranch where the trees opened into a clearing, they could see the wall of flames in the distance.

Over a million acres of dry trees fueled a “mega-fire” which burned at frightening temperatures, spawning fire-whirls spinning off tornadic winds of 80 mhp. The only hope to stop such destruction was a change in the weather; the inferno was out of control.

The smart phone interrupted. Jessica’s expensive weather app delivered three ominous chimes. Each was a warning from the previous night about wild fires raging through Texas. They could see darkness, which was the tree line in the distance, but leaping mirthfully from the tops, red sheets of fire snapped like firecrackers. Instinct dominated what happened next. Rick pivoted like a point-guard, back to the Tahoe, grabbing the laptop computer on his way to the house.

Amazingly, Clay was still asleep snoring like a black Labrador, blissfully ignorant. Jessica watched over Rick’s shoulder as he looked up coverage warning maps, reading NWS updates. During their sabbatical, wild fires encircled Liberty County; Clay seemed so surprised and sleepy they could have been showing him a foreign newspaper.

Rick and Clay shuttled back outside, as Jessica studied the laptop. “What in the hell is going on, Rick?” Clay asks. 

“Can you see the shooting flames above the tree line, Clay?” Rick shot back, “I think we need to get outta here.”

They both internally inventoried their emotions at the moment, recognizing regret, ignorance, terror, flight, confusion, curiosity, and urgency, all competing for bandwidth inside the central processing unit known as their hung-over brains. “I knew there were some wild fires around Texas, but I gotta tell ‘ya Rick, this caught me off-guard, and it looks a whole lot closer than I would like! There’s just a coupla ways off this ranch and the county roads are hard to navigate,” Clay responded to the ominous wall of flame at which they both stared.

“Alright.” Rick wasn't quite listening, planning another quick exit, almost instantaneously assuming command. “Load your truck.” He said, wheeling again toward the house.

“I'll get Jess,” he was running back down the road.

“We’re burnin daylight!” Clay was one step behind, but he caught the irony of the last statement.

Photo credit: AP

##

(to be continued in Part 3) 
©Mark H. Pillsbury




Posted by
Mark H. Pillsbury


at
11:41 AM

















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook




Labels:
Audubon,
Cozumel,
energy,
extreme,
fire,
inferno,
mega fire,
NASCAS,
NWS,
rage,
ranching,
smoke,
storm chasers,
Texas,
trapped,
tree line,
truck,
weather,
wildfires










0
comments:
        








Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)










About Me




Mark H. Pillsbury


(Bono, U2) "Now that I'm older ... 
I don't see things any clearer;
nearer now but,  still a long way off."

View my complete profile


















Total Pageviews
















Follow by Email






























Followers






















Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(33)





          ► 
        


September
(3)

My 9-11 tribute in fiction
True, This! —  Beneath the rule of men entirely gr...
The Age of Dissonance








          ► 
        


August
(8)

Unbroken
Galatians 5 AMP - IN this freedom Christ has made ...
The End
Only chance of rain is in Liberty County (headline...
Thoughts on the PGA and golf (Aug. 10, 2011):

I d...
Listen to this sermon at www.christtheking.com (Au...
The Crashing Conclusion (Stormchaser Saga)
‪Hunter Hayes - Storm Warning (Official Video)‬‏ -...






▼ 

July
(13)

Rescue over the Rainbow (Part X)
KIAH (CW) Channel 39 NewsFIX
Mirrored Majesty (from Psalm 8)
Double feature: episodes 8 & 9 of the storm chaser...
The New Rostra (rostra novum) A new blog: Part VII...
Part VII: The Journey
Part VI (fiction ripped from the headlines) The st...
The Creator's Tool (Part 5)
How hard is Death... Part 4 of the storm-chaser sa...
Texas wildfires: the escape (fiction ripped from t...
Baseball, hot dogs, and 4th of July
Fire and Rain: fiction ripped from the headlines
Breathe now.








          ► 
        


June
(9)

Hill Country Memories (Summer 2011)
Dirty Dozen (questions) about Matthew 7:12 "golden...
Charlie Rose - An hour with David McCullough
Stimulus Package a/k/a TARP and "shovel-ready" job...
Part one: Fire and Rain (fiction ripped from the h...
Author Henning Mankell of Sweden (Stieg Larsson's ...
irrelevancy kills
Fictional account for Father's Day (or what Hamp a...
Ahem... I am up on the rostra novum... Hello!


























































©Mark H. Pillsbury (2011). Picture Window template. Template images by LordRunar. Powered by Blogger.































