Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes | Austin News.Net












 
 
 












Home

Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes
Austin News.NetWednesday 7th September, 2011 (Source: Deseret News)
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   
BASTROP, Texas — Firefighters began Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that had raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.  As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry headed to California for a GOP presidential debate while autho...  ... Read the full story at Deseret News 
  
Share this page





 

Tweet

   




Have your say on this story



Your nickname
 (required)


Message



















Top Stories  













Norwegian cruise ship suffers engine room fireThree crewmembers were injured aboard the Norwegian cruise ship MS Nordlys when a fire broke out in the engine room, the Hurtigruten line said Thursda ... [read story]
Family asks for death penalty not to be considered in hate crime caseThe family of an African American man killed by a group of white teenagers in Mississippi has requested that the death penalty not be considered.

R ... [read story]
Di Rupo says Belgian political crisis nearing an endThe mediator working with the divided parties trying to form a government in crisis-struck Belgium has announced a breakthrough following tense negoti ... [read story]
Weapons needed by rebels on the ground to fight Gaddafi, says NTC headLibya's interim leader says the NTC needs more weapons to defeat Gaddafi forces.

Mustafa Abdul Jalil, the head of Libya’s National Transitional C ... [read story]
Church of Scientology accused of under paying Australian workersThe Australian branch of the Church of Scientology could be forced to surrender millions of dollars in back pay and face criminal charges, following a ... [read story]





















Daily Newsletter
Austin News RSS Feed
World News RSS Feed
Business and Finance RSS Feed


Home
Newsletter
Map
About Us
News Releases
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map

© 1999 - 2011 Mainstream Media EC - All rights reserved

