As Texas blazes roar, Udall says Colorado not yet out of wildfire woods | The Colorado Independent

The Colorado Independent 


 Sign up for our email newsletter

rss
facebook
twitter








 








HOME
ISSUES

Civil Rights
Economy/Finance
Education
Elections/Campaigns
Environment/Energy
Government Accountability/Reform
Health Care
Immigration
Justice/Civil Liberties
Labor
LGBT
Media
National Security
Politics


CIVIL RIGHTS
ENVIRONMENT/ENERGY
IMMIGRATION
POLITICS
SEND A NEWS TIP




 Top Stories  
Pro snow riders bumming out over GOP’s assault on the EPA and climate science



By Troy Hooper | 
		09.14.11

A trio of professional snow shredders are charging the biggest hill in
Washington, D.C., this week. Their message: Congress is getting too radical on Capitol Hill.


DeGette fights GOP ‘big government’ anti-abortion gambit



By John Tomasic | 
		09.13.11

In a new chapter of the often topsy-turvy story of the Tea Party era, Colorado Democratic US Rep Diana DeGette this week finds herself championing local government rights against Republican efforts to expand federal power. DeGette on Wednesday urged House and Senate appropriations committees staffers to reject legislative stipulations that aim to prohibit the District of Columbia government from using local tax dollars to pay for abortions as part of its employee insurance policies.  


Chaput navigating rocky first weeks in embattled Philly archdiocese



By John Tomasic | 
		09.13.11

Former Denver Archbishop Charles Chaput took the reins in sex-scandal-plagued Philadelphia last week. A sampling of YouTubes posted last week offers a snapshot of his trying first days there, a new Church leader in a place grown deeply distrustful of Church leaders. 


VIDEO: From the ashes of a murder rises a movement of hope



By Scot Kersgaard | 
		09.13.11

It wasn’t that long ago that Kansas legislator Virgil Peck said undocumented immigrants should be shot from planes. That may be an extreme view, at least so publicly expressed by someone so prominent, but almost every day someone on talk radio says something nearly as offensive.

 



 Video Highlights  




Chaput navigating rocky first weeks in embattled Philly archdiocese
VIDEO: From the ashes of a murder rises a movement of hope
VIDEO: Reagan and Bush were far to the left of current Republicans on immigration

Twitter List 

Blog Roll 

BigMedia

Boulder Weekly

ColoradoPols

Colorado Energy News

Colorado Springs Gazette

Colorado Springs Independent

Colorado Statesman

Complete Colorado

Coyote Gulch

Daily Camera

Denver Business Journal

Denver Post Spot blog     

Durango Herald

Elephant Journal

Ft Collins Coloradoan

Glenwood Springs Post Independent

Grand Junction Daily Sentinel

High Country News

Huffington Post Denver

People's Press Collective 

Real Aspen

Real Vail

Stateline Daily

Summit County Voice

Sunlight Foundation

Westword / Latest Word





Texas Army National Guard helicopters respond to North Texas fires in April. (Staff Sgt. Malcolm McClendon/Flickr) 
 
As Texas blazes roar, Udall says Colorado not yet out of wildfire woods
 Perry to attend tonight's GOP debate despite ongoing disaster

By David O. Williams | 
		09.07.11 | 12:00 pm


Comments 

Tweet
Share




Despite the recent round of wet weather in Colorado – including some snow above 12,000 feet – Colorado politicians and fire officials warned fall can be one of the most active seasons for wildfires.
“We shouldn’t let the recent cool weather fool us; fall wildfire season is upon us again, and this year’s extremely dry weather — particularly in drought-stricken southern Colorado — means it’s important to be especially vigilant,” Colorado U.S. Sen. Mark Udall said Tuesday in a release commemorating the one-year anniversary of the Fourmile Canyon Fire near Boulder.
Charred school buses in the wake of Boulder County's Fourmile Canyon Fire (Photo by Eric Peter Abramson, area resident).That blaze destroyed 169 homes and is the costliest in Colorado history in terms of property damage. Udall at the time called for a federal investigation of how the fire was handled, and the Boulder mayor placed some of the blame on global warming and the state’s ongoing mountain pine bark beetle epidemic that has left millions of acres of trees dead or dying.
“After touring the site last year, I was struck by the fire’s intensity and the heartbreaking loss of property,” Udall said Tuesday. “My thoughts are with the victims of the fire, many of whom are still struggling to recover.”
Gov. John Hickenlooper also warned that the state is still susceptible to devastating wildfires this time of year. Colorado’s Front Range just experienced one of the hottest and driest Augusts on record.
“The Fourmile Canyon Fire in Boulder County, which started on Labor Day last year, is a haunting reminder of the impacts wildfires can have on our natural resources and communities,” Hickenlooper said.
Meanwhile, Texas firefighters are still struggling to cope with the worst wildfires in that state’s history. According to ABC News, more than 1,000 homes have been destroyed and four people have died as winds from Tropical Storm Lee whipped up massive walls of flames over the weekend.
Despite the ongoing disaster, Texas Gov. Rick Perry’s aides told ABC he will participate in tonight’s Republican presidential debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif.
Scientists warn that extreme drought conditions and weather events will become more common as the planet continues to warm, but Perry has emerged as the GOP frontrunner for the 2012 nomination by casting doubt on global climate change science.
Perry on Tuesday also took a jab at the Obama administration’s response to the fires in his state, meanwhile failing to mention the draconian cuts he and Texas state lawmakers have made to funding for state firefighting.
Follow David O. Williams on Twitter. 
		
	


Comments 

Tweet
Share












Comments







Categories & Tags:
Arrangement| Economy/Finance| Environment/Energy| Politics|   global climate change | Global Warming | John Hickenlooper | Mark Udall | presidential debate | Ricky Perry | Wildfires | 
		



Twitter CoPolitics 

 





 Trending Now  
 New child labor laws address agriculture sector, likely hurt family farms  
 La Raza ends boycott of Arizona  

 AINN Affiliates  
The American Independent News Network:
American IndependentPowers defends UT’s mission: educating students ‘to do more than just pull levers’
Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa

Florida IndependentFlorida congressman attacks EPA for ‘going wild,’ using ‘junk science’
Tar balls, dead marine life raise more questions about oil in the gulf

Iowa Independent
Iowa visit won’t ease Perry’s immigration woes
King believes Obama’s ‘drunken Uncle Omar’ worthy of congressional hearings

Michigan MessengerDetroit City Council backs repeal of Emergency Manager law
Outsourcing government services costs more

Minnesota IndependentJeff Hayden wins DFLers nod in SD61
Strong showing by Sadik Warfa in SD61 DFL race

New Mexico IndependentDespite some bad news in national SAT results, analysts say worrying is premature
New Mexico: Legislators of Albuquerque’s West Side rally for more House seats

Texas IndependentPowers defends UT’s mission: educating students ‘to do more than just pull levers’
Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa

 



Home
About us
Code of ethics
Contact us
Donate
Email Newsletter Signup
Our funders
Our team
Privacy and comment policies



 



© 2011 The American Independent News Network






























