Trained firefighters turned away from Texas wildfire by feds











Email
Password
Remember meForgot password? 



Log in with Facebook

		Connect your Digital Journal account with Facebook to use this feature. 




















Contribute»









Log In Sign Up   Connect







Home
Arts Business Crime Education Entertainment Environment Food Health Internet Lifestyle Politics Religion Science Sports Technology Travel World 




Trending
				     David Weprin     Roger ebert     Tiff     Committee for the Republic of Canada     Air canada     Leanne     think of me     Television     Toronto police services     Taliban     lauren ambrose     Saudi arabia     Pork     Nancy Shevell     Elizabeth warren 







More:
Blogs»
Top Blogs»
Latest Blogs»
Post Blog»

Images»
Top Images»
Latest Images»
Upload Images»

Groups»
View Groups»
Create a Group»

Live Events»
News Alerts»
Create an Alert»
Manage Alerts»

Help»
Get paid to report news»
Post blogs»
Upload images»
Embed video»
Join/create groups»
Like news, blogs & images»
Comment & debate»









 
















 Listen
	
	 
	

Print
	
	 

		article:311209:36::0


	In the Media










	Sep 7, 2011
	by ■ Nancy Houser - 		1 comment





Trained firefighters turned away from Texas wildfire by feds
By Nancy Houser.





 Bastrop
		- 
Wildfires in Bastrop County, Texas, had destroyed 550 homes and 34,000 acres by the time federal officials had arrived, forcing trained voluntary firefighters away from the scene as “there had been no official request for them.”

With over 30,000 acres on fire in Texas, Jennifer Jones, a spokesperson of the U.S. National Interagency Incident Center, has now confirmed that federal officials have assumed command of the fires in Bastrop County, Texas, at 1 p.m., reported The Gonzales Cannon. 


The Texas wildfire is the worst in Texas history, with two dead and the fire slowly moving toward the city of Bastrop. Firefighting trained volunteers had met in Bastrop and Smithville in order to help combat flames that were out of control, only to be told to leave. 

“We were at the station getting set up into strike teams, and this guy came up and said that the U.S. Forest Service had ‘assumed control of the situation, and that ‘If you don’t have a vehicle that squirts water, go home,’” said Gordon Greer of Kirbyville, who drove all night Monday to arrive in the town beset by the worst wildfire in Texas history. “You’ve got guys who had driven all night long from Corpus Christi and Brownsville on their own dime, and they turned them away. He was really a (bleep) about it. There was a whole line of beige cars that came in this morning, tinted windows and such.” (reported in the Montgomery County Police Reporter)


Normally, in Texas the first line of defense for emergencies was the state National Guard. According to Alex Jones, the Federal Government has taken over control of the Guard in order to merge its operations with the Pentagon since the  9/11 incident. Today Jones was contacted by firefighters in the Bastrop area who confirmed that FEMA was blocking all volunteer assistance by frustrating local attempts through its “bureaucratic red tape.” The area’s local trained voluntary firefighters and other volunteers complained that the U.S. Forest Service is not assisting them to clear federal hurdles in order for them to respond to the fire. 


The area’s local trained voluntary firefighters and other volunteers complained that the U.S. Forest Service is not assisting them to clear federal hurdles, in order for them to respond to the fire. Loudly voicing their displeasure at the feds for taking command, the volunteers were still upset that Texas Governor Rick Perry had been turned down after he had requested federal aid for wildfires earlier in the year. 


The Montgomery County Police Reporter also reported, “They’re willing to sacrifice the lives of the people of Bastrop just so they can come in here and pull rank,” said Daniel Miller of Nederland, who had led a group of Texas Nationalist Movement members who were certified firefighters to Bastrop from the Beaumont area. Miller said he and several other members of the group would remain in the Bastrop area to aid with civilian relief efforts.





article:311209:36::0






More about
trained firefighters, turned away, texas wildfire, Alex jones 



 



 trained firefighters
turned away
texas wildfire
Alex jones
 







  Social Comments ()
  Digital Journal Comments (1)

































More from Environment




Minnesota wildfire smoke spreads hundreds of miles away






Animal rights group wants giant PH crocodile freed from captivity






Mesothelioma and the unspoken death sentence of 9/11 survivors






Strong earthquake shakes Vancouver Island in Canada












Buy an ad on DigitalJournal.com

Related News
 1. Texas drought and heat combine for hottest summer in US history


			Sep 9, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 4 comments
Texas has recorded the hottest summer in US history, with a daily average of 86.8 degrees from the June through August period, toppling a 77-year-old record set by Oklahoma in 1934, and the near-term forecast calls for more 100-degree days.


2. Op-Ed: Texas firefighters budget was slashed by Perry and state GOP


			Sep 7, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 8 comments
As the state of Texas continues battling wildfires in a season extending for almost a year, Governor Rick Perry and GOP cohorts helped guide through drastic budget cuts to the Texas Forest Service (TFS), a wrong move which has come home to roost.


3. New wildfires in central Texas destroy hundreds of homes


			Sep 5, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 10 comments
New wildfires in central Texas over the Labor Day weekend destroyed hundreds of homes and scorched thousands of acres as strong north winds and extremely dry conditions have whipped the fires into uncontrollable situations.


4. Op-Ed: False flags and false friends – rumours and nonsense about Oslo


			Jul 29, 2011 by Alexander Baron - 67 comments
Before the dust had settled in Norway, conspiracy theorists, fantasists and hatemongers were queueing up to peddle their own version of what had happened and why.


5. Roller rink shooting spree in Texas leaves six dead, four wounded


			Jul 24, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 4 comments
A lone gunman turned a private birthday party Saturday night at a North Texas roller rink into a scene of madness, mayhem and death, killing five people and wounding four others before turning the gun on himself and committing suicide.













Corporate

Contact Us

About Us

Media Center

Advertise

Top Digital Journalists

Investors & Partners

Board of Advisers



Help & Support

Help Center

Frequently Asked Questions

Editorial Guidelines

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy

Code of Conduct






News Links

News Alerts

Digital Journal News

Digital Journal Mobile

Digital Journal Television

Digital Journal Magazine

Global Press Releases





copyright © 1998-2011 digitaljournal.com   |   powered by dell servers












Show toolbar





Go to top



					Email this
				



					Share on Facebook
				




Tweet




Leaked nude Scarlett Johansson photos lead to FBI investigation



Op-Ed: Mayweather vs. Ortiz — Will Victor Ortiz carry Pacquiao's torch?



Minnesota wildfire smoke spreads hundreds of miles away











Recipient email:

You can enter up to 10 comma-separated email addresses.






Your email:optional



Message:optional



 


























Trained firefighters turned away from Texas wildfire by feds
Wildfires in Bastrop County, Texas, had destroyed 550 homes and 34,000 acres by the time federal officials had arrived, forcing trained voluntary firefighters away from the scene as “there had been no official request for them.”








