Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People Missing




Mobile News
MyFOXCam
MyDatingPlace
FOX 10 Events
Search


Site
                    



                       Web
                    

Business
                    











  



Live VideoFOX 10 Arizona Morning






Submit Photos
Job Shop  
Contests
Contact Us
C.More My45
TV Listings
E-Mail Alerts
XFactor





Home
News




News
Local
National




FoxNews





World




SkyNews





Politics




National
State Politics
Polls
Newsmaker Sun.
FOX News Sun.





Investigative
Elections
Crime


Justice
AZ Most Wanted
Money
Market Watch
Business
WSJ Headlines
Recalls
Consumers


Education
OffBeat
Sci Tech
War Room
Faith
Only on Fox
Pets
Immigration


Housing Market
Gas Prices
FOX E
Must Read
Had Enough
RSS Feeds





Morning Show
Weather
Sports




Sports
NFL




Cardinals





MLB




Diamondbacks





Super Bowl
NCAABasketball
NCAA Football
NBA




Suns





WNBA


NHL




Coyotes





Golf
Auto Racing




NASCAR





Soccer
Sun Devils
Lumberjacks
Wildcats
High School





Traffic
Health
Entertainment




Entertainment
Music
Movies
Television
Celebrity News
TMZ
Family Fun
Dogs


Cats
Online Family
Your Baby
Travel
Lottery
Healthy Living
Spark
Green Simple


Style
Style Tech
FOX Shop
Girl World
Driving
Geek Weekly
Features
TV Guide


Station Sched
American Idol
FOX on Demand





About Us




About Us
History
EEO Reports
Advertise
Sales
News Team
Work for Us
Contact Us


FAQ
FCC Form 398
Site Map
Captioning
Terms Service
Privacy Policy





Seen on TV




Seen on TV
Links
Live Video 1
Live Video 2
FOX 10 Events
Newscast Dubs
MyDating Place
Twitter


Facebook
Daily Deal
Text Alerts





Dating



Home : News : 













Video
Photo










 Bastro wildfire. (MyFox Houston) 



Firefighters continue fighting a wildfire in Bastrop, Texas. (MyFOX Houston)


PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size2/2













More News



Human Remains Found in Search for MomAuthorities were preparing Thursday to excavate remains found …



Extreme Couponer Reveals Her Strategy
Everyone is trying to save these days, especially at the …



Had Enough - 9/14
Have you Had Enough? Rick D'Amico sounds off on big government …



Hand Doctor on Trial for Assaulting…
Dr. Michael Brown of the Brown Hand Center, accused of beating …



Mysterious Light Flashes Across Sky
The FOX 10 newsroom has been flooded with calls from people …














Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People MissingUpdated: Sunday, 11 Sep 2011, 1:28 PM MSTPublished : Saturday, 10 Sep 2011, 1:23 PM MST


(NewsCore) - Texas officials were planning to allow more residents back into neighborhoods damaged by the largest of the state's devastating wildfires Sunday after announcing the Bastrop County blaze was roughly 50 percent contained, The Austin American-Statesman reported. But authorities said a number of people remained unaccounted for after the Bastrop blaze, which consumed roughly 34,000 acres, destroyed 1,554 homes and killed at least two people, The Statesman reported. They stressed, however, that does not mean any of the missing are dead. "We have about 17 people we have not heard from," Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said during a news conference Sunday, according to the newspaper. "Some of these people may have [been] on vacation, or whatever." That number was later revised to 22, made up of 12 individuals and five couples. Pickering asked anyone reported missing to contact the sheriff's department, so authorities can "check them off the list," The Statesman reported. The number of homes presumed destroyed by the fire also increased to 1,554 from under 1,400, The Statesman reported Sunday, citing Bastrop County Emergency Management Corridor Mike Fisher. He noted that the number is expected to rise even further. County officials told the newspaper Saturday evening that the Bastrop fire is now 50 percent contained, up from 40 percent earlier in the day. Two people have been confirmed dead in the fire located east of Bastrop, which is roughly 30 miles (48km) southeast of Austin. The first was identified as 48-year-old Michael Troy Farr. The second victim was identified Saturday as 58-year-old Vickie Faye Keenan, The Statesman reported. Meanwhile, the Houston Chronicle reported Sunday that firefighters are making progress battling a massive fire north of Houston, which is now about 65 percent contained. "If the winds don't get any stronger, then things will be great for us," fire service spokesman Ralph Collum told the Chronicle. The fire had burned through 18,468 acres as of Sunday morning, the newspaper said, which is down from an earlier estimate of 21,619 acres. One business and 59 homes have been destroyed in that blaze, the Chronicle reported. A woman and her 18-month-old daughter also died in the wildfires that have rampaged across the state in recent weeks. They were killed Sept. 4 when they were unable to escape their home between Gladewater and Liberty City, 43 miles (69km) northeast of Houston. President Barack Obama declared Texas a major disaster zone on Friday, ordering federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the affected areas.     Read more:  Austin-American Statesman   



Get the latest news from myfoxphoenix on your mobile with our iPhone, Droid or Blackberry apps. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook.   Send us news pictures & video on MyFOX Cam. 












Share This Story





Contact Us




















Add Your Comments Here


Keep your comments civil - MyFOXPhoenix.com reserves the right to remove comments that are obscene, profane, abusive, hateful, racist, spam or otherwise inappropriate. If you see such comments, report them to us by flagging them.  If you don't agree with a comment, debate it - don't flag it.  Refer to our Terms of Service.   When posting a comment on myfoxphoenix.com, a valid e-mail address, Facebook, Yahoo!, OpenID or Twitter account is necessary. The e-mail is not available for viewers to see.  You will be required to verify the e-mail address before posting a comment. Users with third party logins (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) are already considered verified accounts.  Choose a user name you'll remember - don't use your real name unless you want it to be known. Accounts that use obscenities in their user names and/or avatar pictures are not allowed. Click here if you need help signing up for an account or using your profile.   Please enable JavaScript to view the Comments powered by Disqus. Comments Powered By Disqus 

















































EmailThis


Print this story


View Story on a Single Page




Advertisement

  












Latest News



Human Remains Found in Search for Mom


Extreme Couponer Reveals Her Strategy



Had Enough - 9/14



Hand Doctor on Trial for Assaulting Wife



Mysterious Light Flashes Across Sky








More News »







      Top Stories  Popular  Most Commented    
























Suggested Search











Advertisement

  

  






Marketplace












  





Home
News
Morning Show
Weather
Sports
Traffic
Health
Entertainment
About Us
Seen on TV
Dating


Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Advertise with UsMany pages in this Fox Television Stations, Inc. web site feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to Fox Television Stations, Inc. Fox Television Stations, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2011 Fox Television Stations, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.













