Texas wildfires collide with urban sprawl - CSMonitor.com


 Skip to: Content
	Skip to: Site Navigation
	Skip to: Search




















World


USA


Commentary


Business


Environment


Innovation


Science


Culture


Books










All USA Topics
Elections
Politics
Foreign Policy
Justice
Military
Society
Education
Sports
Latest News Wires









Subscribe and save 71
%


 













Advertisements



















Texas wildfires collide with urban sprawl

The 'economic miracle' in Texas means housing developments have sprawled into wildfire danger zones. Now the state has to tally the costs. Are homes going up in places they shouldn't be?

							By 
		
	
				
				
	Patrik Jonsson, Staff writer /
						September 6, 2011
		











A series of large wildfires as seen heading east approaching Bastrop, Texas on Highway 71, Monday, Sep. 5.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of tropical storm Lee. 
Erich Schlegel/AP


Enlarge











Tweet

0 







Atlanta


Raging wildfires destroyed more than 1,000 homes in Texas over the weekend and thousands of residents were evacuated from the most-threatened areas. Ten new fires labeled "large" by the Texas Forest Service cropped up Monday night across the state.
Skip to next paragraph



Related stories



			Tropical storm Lee threatens flooding in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi
	



			More Western towns adopt 'toilet to tap' strategy to water conservation
	


In Pictures: Texas wildfires


Topics

Natural Disasters
Wildfires
Accidents and Disasters
Emergency Services





Drought conditions, high winds, and large amounts of dry, combustible brush are ultimately to blame for some 21,000 wildfires that have hit the state since December. The loss of homes in the rocky hill country highlights how the addition of 2 million residents every five years has pushed urban sprawl into wildfire danger zones, or as former Austin assistant fire chief Kevin Baum calls it, the "top of a matchstick."IN PICTURES: Texas wildfiresHousing a booming population by pushing development outward is part of the reality of America's demographic ebb and flow from struggling states to booming ones, experts say. But this year's drought-driven wildfires have exposed the costs of strategies that put new homes in danger zones.

Some 5,000 people were evacuated ahead of the Bastrop County fire, which continued to burn unabated on Tuesday. By latest count, more than 600 homes have been destroyed there.
This weekend's fire damage is estimated to be $100 million, according to the Insurance Council of Texas.
A young woman and her 18-month-old daughter lost their lives near the Texas town of Gladewater, where a wildfire destroyed 20 homes over the weekend.

A total of 3.6 million square acres of Texas – approximately the size of Connecticut – have burned since December. Some of the most violent blazes of the year are currently burning in Hays, Travis, and Williamson counties, scorching some 40,000 acres so far."In rapidly growing population areas like Austin, as more and more of the desirable land fills up, you get kind of a pushing in and a pressure to build in the zone that everybody knows you shouldn't be building in," says George Rogers, a senior research fellow at Texas A&M University's Hazard Reduction and Recovery Center. "As your population expands, it's a natural consequence: You have built-in pressure to build in less safe places."Twenty-five miles east of Austin, the state's second most popular destination for economic transplants from other states, Bastrop County is known as a film shoot location for Texas-flavored movies like "The Alamo" and as a redoubt of homes set on large, rural lots. Along with its central location, its idyllic setting has helped drive up the county's population by 30 percent in the past 10 years.




 
The toll in Bastrop County is the largest such claim from a single fire in Texas history. Fanned by 40-mile-per-hour wind bands from tropical storm Lee, firefighters had to step aside and let the fires rage into residential areas. Firefighters on Tuesday are using the lull to try to get the upper hand on some 85 fires still burning throughout the state, with special emphasis on fires like the Bastrop County blaze lurking near populated areas.The concerns aren't new: A 2003 FEMA study concluded that parts of Austin and its exurbs were ripe for the kinds of wildfires that have ravaged California in recent years, both for natural and man-made reasons: The placement of new homes on semi-arid ridges and flats brimming with dried-out plants and trees."Simply stated, the conditions ... as we find them today may be perfect for a natural wildfire disaster of significant (and prophetic) proportions," the 2003 report said.Some of the most dire warnings raised in the report are now playing out across Texas."Keep in mind, there's of course nothing inherently dangerous about living in the country, but the danger comes under the right combination of conditions, raising the question, how can we, with any degree of confidence, forecast when we are in harm's way?" says Mr. Baum, a former Austin assistant fire chief who has studied the interface between urban sprawl and wildland vegetation. "Right now, the weather is downright malevolent, like some kind of ugly, invisible hand that's preventing us from getting rain. That's created not just the perfect storm, but the perfect set-up for a situation like this where people have been caught offguard by the intensity and violence of these wildfires."IN PICTURES: Texas wildfiresGet daily or weekly updates from CSMonitor.com delivered to your inbox. Sign up today.


Related stories



			Tropical storm Lee threatens flooding in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi
	



			More Western towns adopt 'toilet to tap' strategy to water conservation
	


In Pictures: Texas wildfires




Topics

Natural Disasters
Wildfires
Accidents and Disasters
Emergency Services










Follow Patrik on Twitter and Facebook. 










 












Monitor Mall.  Shop for a cause - support The Christian Science Monitor.




Read Comments

View reader comments | Comment on this story




					These comments are not screened before publication. Constructive debate about the above story is welcome, but personal attacks are not. Please do not post comments that are commercial in nature or that violate any copyright[s]. Comments that we regard as obscene, defamatory, or intended to incite violence will be removed. If you find a comment offensive, you may flag it.
				


						If you have questions about comments or comment policy, check out our FAQ page.
					

						When posting a comment, you agree to our Terms of Service.
					









 USA »




Microsoft bids for buzz with Windows 8 beta-tablets. Is iPad vulnerable? (VIDEO)




 Innovation »




Uncanny Valley: Will we ever learn to live with artificial humans?




 USA »




Mariano Rivera reaches baseball milestone Tuesday night




 Business »




Despite rush, you can still get Missoni at Target





World »




Miss Universe 2011: Angola's Leila Lopes becomes fourth African winner




 USA »




LivingSocial under fire: Can daily-deal sites keep offering huge discounts?




 Science »




In search for life, more planet 'candidates' are found. Are any just right?





Making a Difference

Ned Eames uses tennis to boost inner-city reading skills and graduation rates
 

 USA »




Rugby World Cup: US starts play Sunday, as part of pool stage action




 Science »




GRAIL space mission will paint a fuller picture of the moon




 Innovation »




Marty McFly shoes go on auction to benefit Michael J. Fox Foundation 




 The Culture »




Warrior: movie review
















Understanding the basics of your credit score can help you score the best mortgage Relocation.com






About these ads 








Most viewed





			Super-Earth: Newly discovered planet could potentially support life
	



			Shoshana Hebshi, Ohio woman shocked by being taken from plane in US 
	



			'God Bless America'? Not in high school math class, US judges rule.
	



			Denmark's election a litmus test for Europe's far-right politics
	



			PlayStation Vita gets 2011 release date (but only in Japan) 
	



 



Photos of the day
09.14.11 »













CSMonitor.com on Facebook


 
















In Pictures



Space photos of the day: Extreme heat
 



Inside CSMonitor.com:






 Future NASA rocket unveiled, designed to reach moon and beyond
					
The design of the new NASA rocket draws on key systems from the space shuttle and Ares programs. The agency anticipates launching the first demonstration version of the rocket by 2017.			 


			Denmark's election a litmus test for Europe's far-right politics
	


Global News Blog:

			How Europe sees the US a decade after 9/11
	


Global News Blog:

			Good Reads: Taliban's Kabul attack, looming demise of Al Qaeda... and the euro
	

Are you ready for the presidential primaries? Take our quiz.


 





About these ads 




What happens when ordinary people decide to pay it forward? Extraordinary change. See how individuals are making a difference... 



Ned Eames runs Tenacity, a fast-growing nonprofit that teaches tennis and literacy to middle-schoolers and some high school youths. He’s eyeing expansion to elementary schools.


Ned Eames uses tennis to boost inner-city reading skills and graduation rates
Tennis helped Ned Eames thrive during his childhood – now he uses it to help Boston kids improve their reading skills and stay in school.







Become part of the Monitor community

36K on Facebook | 12K on Twitter | 2,250 on YouTube


























Sponsored Links




Booking Agency


Grabow Entertainment Agency






Business Resources


Business Cards






Financial Services


Swiss Annuities











Fitness


Endless Pools Swimming Machines





Legal Services


Legal Marketing





Whistleblower






Real Estate


International Shipping


Mortgage Calculator


Moving


Moving Companies


Real Estate










Speakers Bureau


Christian Speakers


Celebrity Speakers Bureau


Motivational Speakers Bureau


Sports Speakers Bureaus






Web Services

Best
          Dedicated Server

Dedicated Servers


Hosting


















About these ads


Home
About
Content Map
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Text
Specials
Multimedia
Make Us Your Home Page


Careers
Corrections
Find us online
Advertise With Us
Monitor Mall
Today's Article on Christian Science



© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. 
		
















    
 





