







 U-Haul is Offering 30 Days of Free Storage and U-Box Portable Storage... -- AUSTIN, Texas, Sept. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ --


























    
























See more news releases in:  Transportation, Trucking & Railroad,  Household, Consumer & Cosmetics,  Travel Industry,  Corporate Social Responsibility 







 





U-Haul is Offering 30 Days of Free Storage and U-Box Portable Storage to Central Texas Wildfire Victims






















 









 

Download image





AUSTIN, Texas, Sept. 6, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The U-Haul Company of Austin is offering 30 days of free storage and U-Box Portable Storage to Texas residents whose homes have been damaged by these wildfires, or those still needing to move their belongings away from areas being affected at this time. With U-Box Portable Storage, you pick up or we deliver the U-Boxes, you fill them up and we store them in our secure warehouse or deliver them to a location of your choice.
(Logo:  http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20090622/LA34860LOGO-b)
In addition to the 30-days-free self-storage assistance being offered, U-Haul locations throughout central Texas also will be collecting donations of new personal-hygiene items, along with new and gently used household goods, furniture and clothing for Texas residents whose homes have been destroyed. 
Also, people who need boxes can take advantage of the U-Haul Take a Box, Leave a Box Program. The program enables customers to return their reusable boxes and allows others to take them as needed – FREE. U-Haul encourages anyone who has any type of reusable box to drop it off at the nearest U-Haul location and allow another family to reuse the box, free of charge, instead of throwing the reusable box into the recycling bin. 
Families needing more information about the 30-days-free self-storage assistance program or residents who have items to donate should contact the following regional office:
U-Haul Company of Austin12611 Research Blvd. Austin, TX 78759(512) 331-7777
"With more than 1,000 homes destroyed within the last several days, these wildfires have caused critical damage, and are continuing to spread throughout the communities we serve," stated Wayne Towle, president, U-Haul Company of Austin. "I hope this effort will provide assistance to families that need a helping hand.  We will continue to help our friends and neighbors in this time of need."
About U-Haul
Since 1945, U-Haul has been the choice for the do-it-yourself mover, with a network of more than 16,300 locations in all 50 States and 10 Canadian provinces. U-Haul customers' patronage has enabled the Company to maintain the largest rental fleet in the do-it-yourself moving industry with approximately 104,000 trucks, 80,000 trailers and 36,000 towing devices. U-Haul offers more than 406,000 rooms and 36 million square feet of storage space at nearly 1,100 owned and managed facilities throughout North America. U-Haul is the consumer's number one choice as the largest installer of permanent trailer hitches in the automotive aftermarket industry. The Company supplies alternative-fuel for vehicles and backyard barbecues as one of the nation's largest retailers of propane.
U-Haul was founded by a Navy veteran who grew up during the Great Depression. Tires and gas were still rationed or in short supply during the late 1940s when U-Haul began serving U.S. customers. Today, that background is central to the U-Haul Sustainability Program: "Serving the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs."  Our commitment to reduce, reuse and recycle includes fuel-efficient moving vans, neighborhood proximity, moving box reuse, moving pads made from discarded material and packing peanuts that are 100% biodegradable.  Learn more about these facts and others at uhaul.com/sustainability.
Contact:Joanne FriedAshleigh WagnerU-Haul Public Relations(602) 263-6194publicrelations@uhaul.com 
 SOURCE  U-Haul Back to top

















 Next in Transportation, Trucking & Railroad News




Custom Packages
Browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.
Start today.
 


PR Newswire Membership
Fill out a PR Newswire membership form or contact us at (888) 776-0942.


Learn about PR Newswire services
Request more information about PR Newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.
















My News




Featured Video
 

 






Print
Email

  RSS



Share it 




  Google














































Blog it 











	             WordPress Blog URL:
	
	             














Blog Search 






















More in These Categories


Transportation, Trucking & Railroad


Southwest Airlines Offers Bonus Rapid Rewards速 Points for Members Flying To/From Baltimore/Washington, Denver, and Phoenix
Inteva Products Opens Automotive Door Systems Technical Center in Shanghai, China
Inteva Products Celebrates 10 Year Anniversary of Manufacturing in Dingmao District of Zhenjiang, China


Corporate Social Responsibility


Nestle Waters North America Headquarters Earns U.S. Green Building Council's Gold Standard for Sustainable Building
New Research Shows That Parents Still Struggle With Proper Child Safety Seat Use
Entourage Star Adrian Grenier Hits the Links for Charity at the 2011 BMW Championship Pro-Am



Most Read



Sep 12, 2011, 09:30 ET AT&T Expands Windows Phone Leadership


Sep 12, 2011, 23:51 ET Miss Angola, Leila Lopes Crowned Miss Universe 2011 During Live NBC Telecast


Sep 14, 2011, 08:00 ET The World's First* Blue Rose - blue rose APPLAUSE





Most Emailed



Sep 13, 2011, 06:10 ET Judicial Racketeering, RICO Prosecutions Urged:  Full Disclosure Network速 Video Report


Sep 08, 2011, 13:11 ET New Training Overcomes the Misinformation and Failures of Speech Analytics


Sep 10, 2011, 14:18 ET Pre-Paid Legal Services Becomes LegalShield(SM)








Journalists and Bloggers

Visit PR Newswire for Journalists for releases, photos, ProfNet experts, and customized feeds just for Media.
View and download archived video content distributed by MultiVu on The Digital Center.
Free Investing Newsletter from Investor Uprising!
Learn to navigate the world's financial system and profit from leading companies.  

Register for Investor Uprising, the people's investment site, for a free weekly newsletter, information, education and premium research including our latest IU Confidential Report - "All The Glitters: The Ultimate Gold Report". 



















Advanced Search
Search















											Products & Services
										

  





											News Releases
										

















Close
































												Send a release
					


												Member sign in
					


												Become a member
					


												For journalists
					


												Global sites
					







Products & Services
Knowledge Center
Browse News Releases
Contact PR Newswire







About PR Newswire
Contact PR Newswire
PR Newswire's Terms of Use Apply
Careers
Privacy
Site Map
RSS Feeds
Blog




					Copyright © 2011 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
					A UBM plccompany.
				









						Become a member
 



 




						Request more information

							Call us

							Send us feedback





Online Member Center
MEDIAtlas
Media Monitoring
ProfNet
My News for Investors






Argentina
Asia
Brazil
Canada
Europe
France
Israel
Mexico
Netherlands
United Kingdom









