Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes - Nation - TheState.com');
    }
-->



	
 









































    SUBSCRIBE:
    Print
Electronic (PDF)
Manage |
    NEWSLETTERS |
    SPECIAL OFFERS |
    RSS |
    MOBILE |
    TEXT ALERTS |
    PLACE ADS |
    ADVERTISE |
    N.I.E. |
    CONTACT US




TheState.com

Web Search powered by 
YAHOO!
SEARCH




  thestate.com    
        archives    
        web




















Traffic

Traffic
Conditions
DOT cameras


Incidents
Construction
 







current
5-day
full forecast
traffic













news

local
politics
crime
nation
world
education
weird
neighbors
special sections
data
blogs
news archive


sports

GoGamecocks.com
tigers
midlands preps
that's racin'
golf
blogs
ron morris


business

events calendar
people & achievements
20 under 40
book of lists
technology
homes
jobs
legals


life & style

comics/games
horoscopes
movie listings
tv listings
food & dining out
weekend
celebrations
place announcement
calendars & events
midlands moments
family ties
magazines
faith & values
living here


opinions

letters to the editor
blogs
editorial cartoons


media

buy photos
browse photos
sports photos
USC photos
Midlands Moments
videos


obits
Find N Save
classifieds
homes

apartments
real estate videos
real estate weekly


jobs

jobs at the state


cars
place ad























Wires - Wire - Nation

Monday, Sep. 05, 2011
Wednesday, Sep. 07, 2011

Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes


By JIM VERTUNO and MICHAEL GRACZYK - Associated Press

 Associated Press      













 E-Mail
	

 Print
	

           Reprint
       
0 comments


Text Size:












tool name
close


		tool goes here
	






BASTROP, Texas — 			One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee's winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 45 square miles, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four.		


























	Helicopters and air tanker planes combined to fights a series of large wildfires around Bastrop, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	A series of large wildfires as seen heading east approaching Bastrop, Texas  on Highway 71 Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	Firefighters from Smithville Fire Department battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	A large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011 burns piles of lumber and ranch posts.  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Erich Schlegel	/AP Photo 






	Gov. Rick Perry holds a news conference to discuss wild fires in central Texas, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Smoke from a wildfire hangs in the sky, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Officials hope that calmer winds Tuesday will help firefighters battling a wildfire that has destroyed nearly 500 homes in Central Texas and forced thousands of residents to evacuate to shelters to avoid the blaze.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Flames from a gas pipe continue to burn at a home that caught fire when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Garrett Quinn sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Hayden Wilhelm sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.  More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Hayden Wilhelm, left, sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Sisters Laura, left, and Michelle Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Car collector John Chapman surveys the losses at his home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Chapman lost more than 175 cars to the wildfires.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Willie Clements surveys his fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Clements lost his home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Car collector John Chapman surveys the losses at his home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Chapman lost more than 175 cars to the wildfires.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Dave Bailey looks through the ashes of his home that was destroyed by wildfires, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	Garrett Quinn sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Eric Gay	/AP Photo 






	David Courtney, front and his friends take all of his valuables from his home as changing winds bring a wildfire closer, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County, Texas.  More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.   ( AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Nick de la Torre)  MANDATORY CREDIT         

	- Nick de la Torre	/AP 






	Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- San Antonio Express-News, William Luther	/AP Photo 






	Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- San Antonio Express-News, William Luther	/AP Photo 






	Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- San Antonio Express-News, William Luther	/AP Photo 






	Charlie Brown helps friends evacuate as winds change the direction of a fire, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County, Texas.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.  ( AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Nick de la Torre) MANDATORY CREDIT         

	- Nick de la Torre	/AP 






	Texas Gov. Rick Perry speaks  to media after tasking an aerial tour of the fire devastation at Steiner Ranch, a residential development in Austin, Texas.  (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Alberto MartInez )  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT; AP MEMBERS ONLY         

	- Alberto MartInez	/AP 






	Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, speaks during a news conference Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Austin, Texas. Perry marveled at the destruction and pointed out that more than 100,000 acres in the drought-stricken state had burned over the past week, and that more than 3.5 million acres _ an area roughly the size of Connecticut _ had burned since December. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Ricardo B. Brazziell)  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT; AP MEMBERS ONLY         

	- Ricardo B. Brazziell	/AP 






	Texas Gov. Rick Perry speaks  to media after tasking an aerial tour of the fire devastation at Steiner Ranch, a residential development in Austin, Texas.  (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Alberto MartInez )  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT; AP MEMBERS ONLY         

	- Alberto MartInez	/AP 






	This photo provided by Texas Parks and Wildlife shows a fire burning in Bastrop State Park in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation, Chase A. Fountain	/AP Photo 






	This photo provided by Texas Parks and Wildlife shows the remains of a home burned in the Colovista area of Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.         

	- Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation, Chase A. Fountain	/AP Photo 






	Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, speaks during a news conference Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Austin, Texas. Perry marveled at the destruction and pointed out that more than 100,000 acres in the drought-stricken state had burned over the past week, and that more than 3.5 million acres _ an area roughly the size of Connecticut _ had burned since December. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Ricardo B. Brazziell)  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT;  AP MEMBERS ONLY         

	- Ricardo B. Brazziell	/AP 







 CLICK FOR MORE PHOTOS 












































































































































































AP Video:
					Wind-driven fires kill woman, child in East Texas				







AP Video:
					Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas				









AP Video:
					Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas				













AP Video:
					Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week				







AP Video:
					Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week				

















AP Video:
					Officials: 2 killed in massive Central Texas blaze				






























Today's news video




			"We lost everything," said Willie Clements, whose two-story colonial home in a housing development near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames.On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand.""This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old Clements said.Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin, and later deployed the state's elite search team to the area to look for more possible victims. Texas Task Force 1 is the same outfit sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina."Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening's Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was "substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of." But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there.Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being putting to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze."It's more difficult than it should be to get those types of assets freed up by the federal government," Perry said. "When you've got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to. If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that's a problem."White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and "we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires."About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from such places as Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight."We're getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies," said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. At least six homes were lost in a fire 40 percent contained. In far Northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.Many of the buildings destroyed in the Bastrop fire were modest, single-story homes in housing developments. Others were expensive ranch homes, set off by themselves.In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. Some homes survived; others were gone.The Postal Service delivered mail to homes that had burned to the ground; only the mailboxes were left stand.Residents were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods."We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this," said Dave Wilhelm, who lives just east of Bastrop. "All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left."Wilhelm returned on Tuesday to find his neighbor's house and three vehicles gone. Some of his children's backyard toys were destroyed, but the Wilhelm house was spared."Some stuff is smoldering on the lot behind us," he said. "Inside of the house, we smell like a campfire. We're definitely very lucky."John Chapman's home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a '57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: "You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.""The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I'm not going to worry about it," he said.For Perry, the crisis carries both opportunity and risk, said Todd Harris, a Republican consultant who has worked on a number of presidential campaigns."It gives Perry an opportunity to demonstrate leadership, to demonstrate decisiveness and at the same time empathy and caring, which are four qualities that most voters look for in a president," Harris said.But he added: "You can't do anything that looks sounds, or smells even remotely political. If it looks like you are taking advantage of a disaster and trying to use it for political purposes, it will backfire and you'll be worse off than if you hadn't done anything."About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires."The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."		



    Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Also contributing to this story were AP reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop. Michael Graczyk reported from Houston.

Get The State newspaper delivered to your home. Click here to subscribe.







Reader discussion

We encourage an open exchange of affirming and dissenting opinions on our stories. We invite you to comment on our content as part of our interactive community.



Click here to read our comment guidelines and learn about our commenting system. Report abuse by clicking the "Flag" button.




Hide this FAQ and policy statement



About our commenting system



Having trouble commenting?

You must be signed in to comment. You can sign in using your account at thestate.com or your Facebook, Twitter or Disqus accounts.

If you are logged in and still unable to comment, you might need to log out and log back in, delete your browser's stored cookies or change your browser's cookie settings to allow "third-party" cookies.


For more on managing browser cookies, view our help document here.



Fullscreen view recommended

Hide this document

        


How do I report abuse on comments I deem inappropriate?

Yes. Report abuse by clicking the "Flag" button.

What are some of the features of Disqus commenting?

You can select how comment threads are organized.  Some people prefer to read the newest comments first, while others prefer to read the oldest comments first.  Others prefer to sort on comments that have the best rating (highest number of "likes") or are the most popular now (highest number of "likes" and replies).  The choice will be yours. You can lock in your personal preference by selecting from among the options presented in the "Sort by" drop down menu that appears above the comments you are reading.  This setting follows you across the site as your read articles and can be changed at your convenience.

You will have the option of subscribing via email to a comment thread by clicking the "Subscribe by email" button at the bottom of the comment box. New comments will be sent directly to your email inbox, where you may read and respond by email.

You will be able to subscribe via RSS to a comment thread by clicking the "Subscribe by RSS" button at the bottom of the comment box.  This link will include step-by-step instructions on how to set up the RSS subscription.

If you are logged in using your Facebook account, you will be able to share your comments on specific articles to your Facebook profile page, just by clicking the "Share on Facebook" link directly beneath the comment box.  This is a per-post selection, so each time you comment on an article or reply to another comment, you will need to indicate your interest in sharing the post to Facebook. 

Will I need to register?

You can register with thestate.com to comment, or log in with an existing Disqus, Facebook or Twitter account. If you have forgotten your thestate.com username and password, you can have the information resent to you by clicking here.

What about my avatar?

We have created a default avatar for readers that log in using their thestate.com username and password. If you want to display a unique avatar, you can upload one to Disqus, Facebook or Twitter, and then comment on thestate.com stories using that account instead. 

Will I be able to indicate my approval of a comment?

Yes, by clicking the button labeled "Like."

Will I be able to "reply" to comments?

Yes. The ability to reply to specific comment posts will remain a core of thestate.com commenting.



 
We ask that you remain civil, and that you follow these guidelines:
 
 Do not resort to personal abuse. You may disagree with the content of an article, with the reporter or with other readers comments, but do not attack anyone personally. Do not libel or defame anyone or violate their privacy.
 
 Keep your comments succinct and stay on topic. Comments that bear no relation to the story will be deleted.
 
 Do not use foul language. Don't try to camouflage profanity with asterisks or other symbols or foreign phrases.
 
 Avoid hate speech. Abusive comments, racist rants or defamatory statements about any group will be deleted.
 
 Do not use threatening language. Repeated bullying or taunting will be cause for banning your account.
 
 Use standard English grammar and observe accepted rules for capitalization, punctuation and spelling. Do not post a comment using all capital letters.
 
 Do not post spam or advertising of any kind.
 
 Do not add images to your comments.
 
 Do not link to Web sites outside of thestate.com.
 
 Do not use an avatar that is offensive or portrays someone in a negative light. Do not misspell or emphasize letters in a person's name to ridicule them or portray them in a negative manner. 
 
 Do not report comments as abusive simply because you disagree with them. Report them only if they violate these guidelines.
  
We reserve the right to delete posts that do not follow these guidelines. Posts that violate these guidelines or are otherwise offensive should be reported immediately. Click the "flag" link under the offending comment.
  
If a post is determined to have violated the guidelines listed above, it may be (1) blocked or (2) deleted from our system. 
  
Users who continue posting comments that violate these guidelines may, at our discretion, be blocked from submitting future comments as well.
  
Read the terms of service for our Web site here.

If I run into problems or want to share feedback, who should I contact?

For problems with article commenting, or feedback on the changes, please email online@thestate.com.














The news you want delivered to your e-mail!








Sign Out




SIGN IN BECOME A MEMBER


















Quick Job Search







Enter Keyword(s):



Enter a City:





Select a State:

All United States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



Select a Category:

All Job Categories
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive1
Banking1
Biotech1
Broadcast - Journalism1
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse






Advanced Job Search |
			Search by Category











The State Top Jobs »





» See More Top Jobs


















Fans
Recommendations
Your friends
Post


















Most Popular


Lexington woman accused of showing porn, giving liquor to teens
20 charged in Midlands drug conspiracy
$17 billion deficit concerns experts
The birth of an offense
USC says it is ready finally to distribute Prudential money
25 must-have items for the Gamecock fan
SC tax preparer sentenced for filing false returns
Man in fatal Lexington wreck identified
DOT panel beating bushes for funds
If Bowyer can’t find a new team, others should worry
 







SITE MAP

news

nation
world
politics
local
media
data



sports

gogamecocks.com
tigers
midlands preps
that's racin
golf



business

cbj
people & promotions
technology
homes
jobs
legals
consumer blog



life & style

announcements
place announcement
calendars & events
comics/games
horoscopes
movie listings
tv listings
faith & values
family ties
food & dining out
living here
magazines
weekend



opinions

letters to the editor
submit a letter
blogs
cartoons



media

browse photos
buy photos
midlands moments
sports photos
USC photos
videos








Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About our ads
Copyright
About TheState.com
About the McClatchy Company

































