ATK News: Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - AP



























































ATK News













































































































Saturday, 10 September 2011





Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - AP





After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos got the news Saturday: His house had burned down in the blaze. But Gaydos — who has been living at a hotel with his wife, two children and father since ... Related News:-Alamos fire evacuees might return home soon - Weather - TODAY.comAs firefighters held their ground on the flank of a massive wildfire that burned near America's premier nuclear weapons lab, officials began planning for the return of thousands of ...Football stadium now a shelter for fire evacueesSAN DIEGO — Like Hurricane Katrina evacuees two years earlier in New Orleans, thousands of people rousted by natural disaster have fled to an NFL stadium, waiting ...NYC mayor: Evacuees can soon return homeThe nearly 400,000 New Yorkers who had been ordered to evacuate low-lying neighborhoods because of Hurricane Irene were told they could go home Sunday afternoon, but ...Civic Center opens to accept Ike evacuees » Hurricane Ike ...As a handful of volunteers prepared to start registering people fleeing Hurricane Ike at the Palestine Civic Center Thursday afternoon, David James saRain 'mixed blessing' in Texas wildfire fightSTONEHAM, Texas (AP) — Firefighters waited to see if rain forecast for Thursday would help or hinder their efforts to battle wildfires that have blackened tens of thousands ...Civic Center opens to accept Ike evacueesPALESTINE — As a handful of volunteers prepared to start registering people fleeing Hurricane Ike at the Palestine Civic Center Thursday afternoon, David James sat at a table ...Calmer winds aid fight against Texas wildfireTexas forestry officials say firefighters are making headway against a wildfire that has destroyed more than three dozen homes and that the blaze is 50 percent contained. The ...Los Alamos evacuation order lifted; 12,000 go homeA smattering of summer rain gave a boost to firefighters battling a huge forest fire near Los Alamos, giving authorities enough confidence to allow about 12,000 people to return ...WILDFIRES OF 2008Canada Wildfires: California Wildfires - 7-7-08: 10-24-08. Fire scorches 38 acres near Beaumont By JOHN ASBURY The Press-Enterprise




Posted by
Mamohan Kapoor


at
21:59












Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook














0
comments:
        








Post a Comment

























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)












































Popular Posts




USS Ronald Reagan Returns to San Diego
As some in the county were hoping for power to return during the outage, others were looking forward to a return of a different kind Friday ...





Fierce resistance by Gadhafi loyalists slows Libyan fighters push for complete control
WADI DINAR, Libya — Fierce resistance by Moammar Gadhafi loyalists entrenched in two strongholds has stalled the rebels’ final push for comp...





Atty: NY child-killing suspect found fit for trial
NEW YORK (AP) -- The suspect in the kidnapping, killing and dismemberment of an 8-year-old New York City boy has been found competent to sta...





Libya fighters assault Gaddafi-held Bani Walid
NEAR BANI WALID, Libya (Reuters) - Libyan fighters trying to capture one of Muammar Gaddafi's last strongholds battled for the desert town o...





FAO: World Food Prices Nudge Lower In August
(Adds U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast paragraph 5, FAO dairy, sugar indexes paragraphs 7-8, details throughout.) LONDON -(Dow Jones)...





Ortiz vs. Lil Nog added to UFC 140
A bout between light-heavyweight stars that was supposed to happen for the Ultimate Fighting Championship in March will take place in Decemb...





Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - AP
After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos...





Nick Ashford composed the soundtrack of our lives
From gorgeous ballads for Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell to empowerment anthems for Chaka Khan, the songwriting/producing duo filled the char...





UPDATE 1-Microsoft giveaway aims to stir Windows 8 interest
ANAHEIM, Calif., Sept 13 (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp (MSFT.O) handed out 5,000 sleek Samsung (005930.KS) tablet computers running a test vers...





Some Hatteras Island residents allowed to go home
BUXTON, N.C. -- More than a week after Hurricane Irene made landfall in North Carolina, residents of Hatteras Island are being allowed to re...















Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(1838)



▼ 

September
(250)

Outage affects 6 million in California, Arizona, M...
Panel examines anti-corruption work in Afghanistan...
Rocket design for giant leap gets go-ahead
Indonesian massacre widows welcome Dutch ruling
Romney takes CEO message to car dealer in Ariz.
Treasury Joins FBI, Congress in Investigating Stim...
Astronomers locate planet blasted away by violent ...
Making the grade? Perry says he didn't
Germany, France vow to keep Greece in the euro fol...
Texas Gov. Rick Perry asked to halt execution
Mancini just focused on group stage
Perry hits Romney in Massachusetts
PREVIEW: Djokovic, Nadal to soldier on in Davis Cu...
Russian private banks see crisis as opportunity
NATO commander says 27 dead in Kabul attack
Maria prompts tropical storm warning in Bermuda - ...
China calls on governments to tackle debt
Signs increasingly point toward eurozone cutting G...
In Republican race, Perry under fire for his HPV v...
Release of key BP oil spill probe expected soon
Calif. police: Law-breaking Gumby turns himself in...
Texas wildfires: More evidence of climate change
UPDATE 1-Microsoft giveaway aims to stir Windows 8...
Richardson pushes to see jailed American in Cuba
LightSquared Decision Expected in September
Banning half-naked men, love triangles on TV
US nervous as ties fray between Israel, neighbors
Solyndra faces House subcommittee hearings
Which Eddie Murphy will show up at Oscars?
Novak Djokovic's U.S. Open title is epic in scale
Japan sends endangered red-crown cranes to Taiwan
Djokovic bests Nadal to win U.S. Open
Nevada National Guard to pay tribute to 3 comrades...
Ex-NBA player accuses restaurant of discrimination...
Only hockey player to survive Russian plane crash ...
Nevada Guard honors comrades slain in shooting
Analysis: Alaska gains under Obama's jobs proposal...
Gadhafi vows to fight as loyalists strike oil hub
Reese Witherspoon badly spooked by car accident
Paris police hear Strauss-Kahn in French rape case...
USS Ronald Reagan Returns to San Diego
Fierce resistance by Gadhafi loyalists slows Libya...
NATO strikes pro-Gadhafi areas in Libya
Vermont Is A State I Love: Coolidge’s words and Ir...
Arsenal beats Swansea to earn first win
San Francisco Giants' Buster Posey begins rehab by...
9/11 is marked worldwide with reflection, prayers
Obama pushes for unity on 9/11 anniversary
Wildfire evacuees look to go home
Inside the Flyers: Revamped Flyers are ready to st...
650 firefighters now battling Wash. blaze
Use of Illegal Drugs Up in America
Djokovic, Nadal head to U.S. Open final - Chicago ...
Pot dealing teacher to go to prison
9/11 widow copes with faith, humor
Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - A...
Will Jets’ Offense Regress in 2011?
Tigers 3, Twins 2
Fresh crews, light winds help fight Texas wildfire...
Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home
Marseille lays bare G7 differences and lack of pol...
String of blazes takes toll on Texas firefighters ...
President Obama urges national unity on 9/11 anniv...
Colts v Texans: Starring Wade Phillips as The Wolf...
China August Trade Surplus Narrows as Exports Drop...
Libya fighters assault Gaddafi-held Bani Walid
AP sources: 2 terror suspects may be US citizens
Ortiz vs. Lil Nog added to UFC 140
FDA says judge shouldn’t stop graphic new cigarett...
Romney retools strategy to thwart Perry’s gain
Libya fighters battle for pro-Gadhafi town - AP
Some Hatteras Island residents allowed to go home
Romney and Perry clash over Social Security
Libya fighters: We're battling in pro-Gadhafi town...
NU replaces Persa's Heisman billboard
The Word 'Doofuses' May Cost Ex-Yahoo CEO Bartz $1...
Katia expected to weaken in Atlantic
FAO: World Food Prices Nudge Lower In August
Jury pool assembled for trial of Michael Jackson’s...
Lee reaches refinancing deal on most of its debt
Nevada sheriff likens IHOP shooting rampage to 9/1...
Lingering quarterback concerns at Simeon, Curie, J...
Lee reaches refinancing deal on most of its debt
Former Thoroughblade Mourns Russian Crash Victims
Chaz Bono: People who don't have gender dysphoria ...
Boston teen allegedly kills based on address
Solyndra, Solar-Panel Maker in California, Seeks B...
Hurricane Katia weakens to a Category 1 storm
Congo: 2 killed in massive jailbreak by hundreds
Swiss Central Bank's Gamble on Euro-Zone Crisis
Remnants of Tropical Storm Lee threatens East with...
Tech Soft 3D and SofTech Announce ProductCenter PL...
The Job Search: A Little Help From Your Friends
Apple Bears Depart as Jobs Sends Puts to One-Year ...
The Game Upset About Restaurant Ban
US Stock Futures Lower On European Turmoil; Swiss ...
DrBicuspid.com announces Patterson Dental's exclus...
Police say man broke in to Celine Dion's home
Two suicide bombers kill 22 in south-western Pakis...
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 2011 note calendar
Dutch Govt Says Neglect Possible at DigiNotar
Telethon nets $61.5 MILLION for Muscular Dystrophy...
Dutch Govt Says Neglect Possible at DigiNotar
Stocks fall again as Europe's debt worries deepen
Katia falls to tropical storm strength at sea
Global stocks, euro recover but long-term fears li...
Did Bravo handle Russell Armstrong’s suicide the r...
Space scientist accused of spying due in court
Commerce City police make 45 arrests at Phish even...
Torture inquiry to probe UK ties to Libya regime
Iran revolution "matter of time": U.S. defense chi...
Chaz Bono: People who don't have gender dysphoria ...
Many baby boomers don't plan to leave their childr...
Chaz Bono: People who don't have gender dysphoria ...
Australia beats Saudis; Iraq and North Korea win
Phone-hacking Inquiry: Evidence 'as Clear as Mud'
University of Massachusetts welcomes students with...
Cable: Nigeria released known terror suspects
No Worries, iPad, Amazon's Android Tablet Is Just ...
Libyan convoys in Niger, may be Gaddafi deal
Nobel winner urges Japan to abandon nuclear power ...
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac sue 17 big banks over m...
Hollywood on end-of-year 3-D spree
Man drowns at Volusia County beach
Hollywood on end-of-year 3-D spree
Roger Clemens will face second perjury trial in Ap...
Wikileaks' Assange accuses UK paper of negligence
World stocks mixed amid dour economic signals
Suspect in Idaho woman’s death is arrested near La...
Roger Clemens will face second perjury trial in Ap...
Hurricane Katia weakens to a Category 3 storm
MDA telethon host Lythgoe: Jerry Lewis 'always wel...
Many schools adding iPads, trimming textbooks - Ch...
Hurricane Katia weakens to a Category 3 storm
Obama: Congress must pass job program
Many schools adding iPads, trimming textbooks - Ch...
Brother recalls texts from doomed Afghan journalis...
Calif. gay marriage ban faces next legal hurdle
Labor Day forum starts busy month for Republican c...
Flash flooding possible for parts of North Carolin...
Sony Tablet S and Tablet P photo gallery
Perry touted Texas, slammed Feds while in South Ca...
Simpson rallies past Reavie in sudden death, wins ...
Facebook Flaw Lets You Hijack Page from Original O...
Many schools adding iPads, trimming textbooks - Ch...
Tax the rich and banks, says Spanish PM hopeful
Julian Assange, the man behind WikiLeaks
Hong Kong Exchange Clarifies Framework For Yuan-De...
Kanye West closes first 'Call of Duty' convention
Turkey holds up Israeli tourists amid tensions, Is...
Obama to spend Labor Day at Detroit AFL-CIO rally
Netanyahu rules out any apology to Turkey
What Can We Do About the Space Junk Problem?
Katy Perry loves her `pink blanket`
Power restored to all but 50 in storm-ravaged Vt.
Hundreds arrested protesting Keystone XL oil pipel...
Many schools adding iPads, trimming textbooks - Ch...
Iran's first nuclear power plant online
Who Deserves to be a Google Plus Suggested User?
Rapper T.I. returned to federal prison in Atlanta ...
Gadhafi leaned on Arab allies to stay in power
The Netflix Streaming Price Trap
Asian stock markets down on dreary US jobs report ...
Special guest appearance
Julian Assange, the man behind WikiLeaks
Report: Earthquakes are a greater threat to U.S. n...
Lee drenches New Orleans, churns northward
Apple's design wizard has not left the building
Sony Tablet S and Tablet P photo gallery
Lee drenches New Orleans, churns northward
Bank of America could slash workforce by much more...
The Netflix Streaming Price Trap
Red Cross head visits Syria to address issues
Israeli Forces Brace for Potential Violence When P...
Wave of death as Red Cross visits Syria
Many schools adding iPads, trimming textbooks - Ch...
Kanye West closes first 'Call of Duty' convention
Windows on the World - then, and now
43,000 Remain Without Power a Week After Irene
Yemen security forces fire at protest, wound 5
Ky. man, 33, drowns saving boy from Michigan river...
Tropical Storm Lee Makes Landfall
O'Shea adds to Republic woes
Public employee unions reflect on difficult year
Libya rebels say Bani Walid tribal leaders divided...
Stocks plunge after US hiring dries up in August
Bid to block AT&T deal reflects telecom industry
Tropical Storm Lee begins pelting Gulf Coast
EU targets Syrian oil firms, says may get tougher
Lee's rain hitting Gulf Coast, much more to come
Libyan intelligence documents show ties between US...
Wisconsin's new offensive line strong for Wilson
Gas Prices Could Set Record High This Labor Day
Russia condemns EU sanctions against Syria
NC governor says preliminary damage estimates from...
Some evacuations lifted in Southern Calif fire
Bank of America shares tumble 8 percent - AP
Federal government sues major banks over Fannie an...
Perry’s Book Gives Rivals Ammunition
E.U. Bans Syrian Oil as Protests Continue
Dominion Restores Power to More Than 1.1 Million C...
Asian markets fall ahead of US jobs data
Mel Gibson and Oksana Grigorieva – The Ugliest Cel...
Martin Luther King Jr. memorial opens to controver...
EU bans imports of Syrian oil over crackdown
Futures extend losses after payrolls data
Rapper T.I. back in federal prison after luxury bu...
NC 12: A love-hate relationship with a road
Warren Jeffs' History of Self-Inflicted Harm in Ja...
How Sprint Wins Big If AT&T/T-Mobile Merger Blocke...
Will you buy Samsung Galaxy S II?
Mel Gibson and Oksana Grigorieva – The Ugliest Cel...
Instant view: Job growth grinds to a halt in Augus...
Turkey expels Israeli ambassador
For Disaster Management, Louisiana Looks to Busine...
For Disaster Management, Louisiana Looks to Busine...
Stocks trade mixed; manufacturing growth slows
Canada reveals it expects U.S. will back pipeline
Locker steps up for Titans in battle of backups
Mel Gibson and Oksana Grigorieva – The Ugliest Cel...
Perry hopes polling surge spurs donors nationally ...
Samsung Electronics Would ‘Never’ Pursue Purchase ...
Bank of America Shares Slump in Tokyo Trading on L...
Mel Gibson and Oksana Grigorieva – The Ugliest Cel...
‘DWTS’ producer: Give Chaz Bono a chance to dance ...
With new tablets, Sony takes aim at iPad in Japan
FAQ: AT&T, T-Mobile, the DOJ
Oil hovers below $89 ahead of key US jobs report -...
T.I. back in federal custody after using luxury bu...
Prosecutors want more treatment time for Loughner ...
D.J. Foster's 6 TDs power Saguaro to rout of Thund...
Locker steps up for Titans in battle of backups
Gadhafi, in hiding, vows no surrender in Libya
Factbox: Rick Perry's fundraising prowess
FEC agrees to Giffords' campaign security request ...
Titans, running back agree to contract extension
APNewsBreak: Nigeria government freed bomb suspect...
Ohio is 1st in US to sell prison to private co.
Apple Suppliers Causing Environmental Problems, Ch...
Pro-Bachmann PAC Goes After Perry
Gasoline close to record high before Labor Day
EU to seek ban of sale of Syria oil to Europe - AP...
Producers Defend Casting of Chaz Bono on 'Dancing ...
Asian Stocks Rally Following Gains onWall Street
Rebels believe they're closing in on Qaddafi
Germany Rejects Full-body Scanners, for Now; Trave...
Obama Jobs Address Moved to Next Thursday After Fl...
Texas wildfire's new path helping firefighters
Perry’s rugged Texan image can send conflicting me...
US online streaming site Hulu expands to Japan








          ► 
        


August
(578)







          ► 
        


July
(508)







          ► 
        


June
(502)

















Total Pageviews















Followers















































About Me




Mamohan Kapoor



View my complete profile


























Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.































