Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire | CharlotteObserver.com & The Charlotte Observer Newspaper');
    }
-->


















































































 News








News

Local News
Crime
Education
Politics
Nation
World
Weird
Special Reports
Obituaries
Blogs/Columnists
Data Center
Public Notices
Today's Paper



Sports

Carolina Panthers / NFL
Charlotte Bobcats / NBA
Blogs/Columnists
High Schools
That's Racin'
College Hoops
College Football
Golf


Knights/Baseball
Checkers/Hockey
Other Sports


Entertainment

Events
Movies
Contests
Celebrities
Dining
Arts
Music / Nightlife
Television
Books
Comics & Games
Horoscopes
Blogs/Columnists


Living Here

Celebrations
Education
Faith & Values
Food
Health & Family
Home & Garden
Style
Travel
Living Here Guide
Blogs/Columnists


Carolina Bride Magazine
Lake Norman Magazine
South Park Magazine
UCity Magazine


Business

Market Summary
Banking
Blogs/Columnists


Opinion

Kevin Siers
Blogs/Columnists
Reader Forums


Shop

Dealsaver
FindnSave
Online Coupons
Newspaper Ads
Special Sections
Buy Photos


Jobs

New Jobs in Charlotte Region
Advanced Search
Freelance, Contract & Part-time
Job Seeker Toolkit
Post a Job


Homes

Houses
Apartments
Mortgages
Schools
Property Taxes
Newcomers' Guide
Blogs/Columnists


Autos

New Car Search
Used Car Search
Certified Pre-Own
Sell Your Car
Blue Book Values


Classifieds

Legal Notices
Create an Ad



































Hello Guest
Login

 Contact Us



Advertise
Letter to the Editor
Issues with Website
Photo Store
News & Info Tips
Newspaper Corrections
Newspaper Account
Staff Listing
E-Edition
More...



Home Delivery



Delivery Problem
Vacation Stop
Account Inquiry
Make a Payment
Subscribe to Newspaper
Subscribe to TV Magazine
Newspapers in Education
E-Edition
Any Other Reason



Subscribe


Advertise With Us



Online Media Kit
Advertising
Classified Ads
Retail Ads
National Ads
Magazine Ads
Online Ads
Direct Marketing


















Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH







 charlotteobserver.com
 Web
 Archives







Weather
Traffic




67°

Mostly Sunny | Forecast






Map
Trouble Spots
Key Routes




I-77N  |  I-77S  |  I-85N
I-85S  |  I-277  |  I-485N
I-485S  |  74E  |  74W  |  521




















0 comments







Print



 Share







Tool Name
Close


        tool goes here
    








Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire



By APRIL CASTROAssociated Press APRIL CASTRO       Associated Press      
Posted: Wednesday, Sep. 07, 2011
Modified: Wednesday, Sep. 07, 2011









Slideshow

« Prev  of  Next » 





http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/06/21/26/916-16Nivf.Em.55.jpg|221
Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, speaks during a news conference Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Austin, Texas. Perry marveled at the destruction and pointed out that more than 100,000 acres in the drought-stricken state had burned over the past week, and that more than 3.5 million acres _ an area roughly the size of Connecticut _ had burned since December. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Ricardo B. Brazziell)  MAGS OUT; NO SALES; TV OUT;  AP MEMBERS ONLY


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/06/17/31/860-13tDbe.Em.55.jpg|187
Car collector John Chapman surveys the losses at his home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Chapman lost more than 175 cars to the wildfires.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/06/17/31/416-1ees6z.Em.55.jpg|159
Sisters Laura, left, and Michelle Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday.


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/06/18/06/369-13tDAc.Em.55.jpg|210
Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011.   More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/06/17/31/651-2z1aH.Em.55.jpg|209
Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday.





More Information






Video







Video







Video







Video







Video







Video









    BASTROP, Texas    Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.
The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.
One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.
Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.
However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.
A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.
Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place.
"It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.
Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday.
"I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."
Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.
"The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."
Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring.
"Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry.
"It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."    



    Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.
























This affects comments on all stories.







The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all, but do keep it civil. Please refrain from profanity, obscenity, spam, name-calling or attacking others for their views.   Read moreRead less

 The Charlotte region is vast and diverse. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all. The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day, but we ask that you keep the discourse civil.

Do not use profanity or obscenities. And don't try to camouflage profanity with asterisks, abbreviations or other symbols or foreign phrases. 
Do not use threatening language. Talk of violence won't be tolerated. 
No racial, gender or sexual-orientation name-calling. 
Do not attack other commenters for their views. Do not libel or defame anyone or violate their privacy. 
Keep your comments succinct and stay on topic. Comments that bear no relation to the story may be deleted. 
Do not add images to your comments. 
Do not report comments as abusive simply because you disagree with them. Report them only if they violate these guidelines. 
Do not post spam or advertising of any kind. 
Do not post a comment using all capital letters. 

We do not monitor each and every posting, but we reserve the right to block or delete comments that violate these rules. 
You can help: Notify us of violations by hitting the "Report Abuse" link. Users who continue posting comments that violate these guidelines may, at our discretion, be blocked from submitting future comments as well. 
And finally, as Mark Twain said: "Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest." 
Enjoy the discussion. 









































Get the Deal!















Value:
Discount:
You Save:


































Quick Job Search







Enter Keyword(s):



Enter a City:





Select a State:

All United States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



Select a Category:

All Job Categories
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive1
Banking1
Biotech1
Broadcast - Journalism1
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse






Advanced Job Search |
Search by Category





Salary Databases

City of Charlotte |
Mecklenburg County 
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools





Charlotte Observer Featured Jobs »





» See More Featured Jobs













Events
Dining
Movies




 

Charlotte Sunset Jazz Festival -- Outdoor Concert
Saturday, September 17, 2:00PM
Marshall Park
 

47th Festival In The Park
Friday, September 23, 4:00PM
Festival in the Park

More EventsMore Venues











Recent Blogs

Campaign Tracker  
Machine gun socials return to the 8th
Your Schools  
CMS leadership: Stability and change
Your Schools  
Rethinking retention
Tommy's Table  
A few extras for Saturday's 9/11 column
Earth & Energy  
More wind power in Duke's future





Lottery

North Carolina Powerball: 9/14/2011  
16-41-42-50-59  PB5  PP3North Carolina Mega Millions: 9/13/2011  
22-31-43-48-56  MB45  MP4Carolina Cash 5: 9/14/2011  
4-13-14-22-33Carolina Pick 4 Daytime: 9/14/2011  
5-7-3-7Carolina Pick 4 Evening: 9/14/2011  
3-8-5-8Carolina Pick 3 Daytime: 9/14/2011  
8-9-8Carolina Pick 3 Evening: 9/14/2011  
9-8-3

































Most Viewed

Former youth worker faces sex charges
It's good to be No. 1, Gamble says positively
A Democrat against labor? Yes, NLRB-Boeing fight hurts N.C.
District 3 primary winner distances herself from attack ads
Enquirer: Sarah Palin had fling with hoops star
Lake Norman boat renters resist safety requirement
Report: QB died after taking methadone
A jobs plan that puts Washington to work
Packers more than just a team
Labor Dept. orders Bank of America to reinstate, pay whistleblower $930,000



























Contact Us »

Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Report a broken link
Staff Listing



Submit Content

Upload your pictures
Upload your videos
News tips




Advertise With Us »

Classified Ads
 Retail Ads
 National Ads
 Magazine Ads
 Online Ads
Direct Marketing



Online Extras

RSS Feeds
Mobile version
Charlotte's got a lot



Observer Network

ThatsRacin.com
MomsCharlotte.com
twitter/theobserver
Observer on Facebook










Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Copyright
About The Charlotte Observer
About the McClatchy Company







































