Obama rejects Texas’ request for wildfire disaster declaration











Email
Password
Remember meForgot password? 



Log in with Facebook

		Connect your Digital Journal account with Facebook to use this feature. 




















Contribute»









Log In Sign Up   Connect







Home
Arts Business Crime Education Entertainment Environment Food Health Internet Lifestyle Politics Religion Science Sports Technology Travel World 




Trending
				     David Weprin     Roger ebert     Tiff     Committee for the Republic of Canada     Air canada     Leanne     lauren ambrose     Taliban     Toronto police services     think of me     Television     Saudi arabia     Elizabeth warren     Nancy Shevell     Pork 







More:
Blogs»
Top Blogs»
Latest Blogs»
Post Blog»

Images»
Top Images»
Latest Images»
Upload Images»

Groups»
View Groups»
Create a Group»

Live Events»
News Alerts»
Create an Alert»
Manage Alerts»

Help»
Get paid to report news»
Post blogs»
Upload images»
Embed video»
Join/create groups»
Like news, blogs & images»
Comment & debate»









 
















 Listen
	
	 
	

Print
	
	 

		article:306328:1293::0


	In the Media










	May 4, 2011
	by ■ Lynn Herrmann - 		8 comments





Obama rejects Texas’ request for wildfire disaster declaration
By Lynn Herrmann.




 Austin
		- 
After a fire burned more than 2.2 million acres of land in the parched state of Texas, President Obama has denied the state’s request of a federal disaster declaration, forcing leading politicians to issue strong statements over the US leader’s decisi

(Note: This article was written in May and does not reflect the current wildfires in Texas)


Governor Rick Perry, in response to the president’s decision, said: “I am dismayed that this administration has denied Texans the much needed assistance they deserve.  It is not only the obligation of the federal government, but its responsibility under law to help its citizens in times of emergency,” according to the Houston Chronicle.  


Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, a former candidate for state governor, in a statement said: “These wildfires have ravaged 2.2 million acres of Texas land, and it is extremely disappointing the administration has denied critical assistance to our state. We've suffered major agriculture and livestock losses and many Texans have lost their homes. We need to equip communities with all of the tools and resources possible to effectively battle and recover from these fires. I am sure the governor will work with the administration to ensure all the requirements are met for timely delivery of this disaster aid.”


Sen. John Coryny, R-Texas, was equally as adamant with his website statement: “When nearly 7,000 individual wildfires burn through more than 2.2. million acres, result in loss of life, and destroy homes, businesses, farms and ranches across the state,  it’s hard to understand how these conditions don’t spell ‘disaster’ for this Administration. We’ve yet to enter the hottest months of the year and already wildfires have wreaked havoc in Texas – yet our state has not received sufficient federal disaster aid. I will not stop fighting until Texas receives its due attention from President Obama and his Administration.”


Both senators have written twice in the past month to the Obama White House, urging the consideration of the Governor’s request.  


Federal Emergency Management Administration spokeswoman Rachel Racusen says the Obama administration has been working for moths to help the crisis in Texas. “This administration, through FEMA, has been working closely with the state throughout the duration of these fires, and we are supporting the firefighting efforts,” she said, MySA reports.  “In fact, we have already approved 25 fire management assistance grants in recent to help cover expenses for these emergency response efforts, including 19 grants in April,” she added.


That, according to Racusen, is sufficient “at this time” for the state.  


One of the largest fires in the state, as reported on earlier by Digital Journal, is the Rockhouse Fire in West Texas.  To date, it has burned more than 314,000 acres and is 95 percent contained, according to latest figures from the Texas Forest Service.  


Critical fire conditions remain throughout much of the western part of the state, from the Texas panhandle southward into the Permian Basin.  A low pressure system advancing from Colorado is expected to push strong southwest winds back into the 20-30 mph range, with gusts over 40 mph across sections of the panhandle.  


Most recently, in the Texas Hill Country, a fire in Kimble County has burned more than 10,000 acres and is 75 percent contained.  Named the Oasis Fire and located four miles south of Junction, the fire continues to be battled with numerous engines, dozers, and helicopters.


Perry, often at odds with Obama’s leadership, noted Alabama’s tornado disaster declaration and the White House failure to do such for Texas: “Why are you taking care of Alabama, why are you taking care of other states, and for some reason,” and pausing for effect at a San Antonio news conference, adding: “The letter didn’t get lost in the mail.”


Despite such objections, Racusen, the FEMA spokeswoman said: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and peers of the fallen firefighters in Texas, and the families and communities being impacted by these wildfires, and we continue to thank the firefighters and first responders who have been heroically working around the clock,” MySA reports. “We will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires continue.”





article:306328:1293::0






More about
texas wildfires, Texas, Rick perry, Wildfires, federal aid 



More news from
 






 texas wildfires
Texas
Rick perry
Wildfires
federal aid
federal disaster dec...
Texas governor
Obama administration
 







  Social Comments ()
  Digital Journal Comments (8)

































More from Politics




Op-Ed: What 'Right To Work' Advocates Don't Want You To Know






Op-Ed: The ugly face of the 9/11 Truth Movement






GOP candidate wins Anthony Weiner's vacated seat in New York






Committee for the Republic of Canada in Toronto campaigning Special












Buy an ad on DigitalJournal.com

Related News
 1. TopFinds: Honoring 9/11 victims, wildfires ravage Texas


			Sep 9, 2011 by David Silverberg
Arkansas honours its 9/11 victim with American flags. Wildfires destroy hundreds of homes in Texas. What happened to a police officer caught having sex on the hood of a car? These are the top stories making headlines.


2. Op-Ed: Texas firefighters budget was slashed by Perry and state GOP


			Sep 7, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 8 comments
As the state of Texas continues battling wildfires in a season extending for almost a year, Governor Rick Perry and GOP cohorts helped guide through drastic budget cuts to the Texas Forest Service (TFS), a wrong move which has come home to roost.


3. If he’s elected, Perry says feds ‘won’t know what hit ‘em’


			Sep 7, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 8 comments
Texas Governor Rick Perry once again has his sights set on federal agencies, and speaking on Monday in South Carolina told a town hall crowd that, if elected president, federal agencies “won’t know what hit ‘em.”


4. New wildfires in central Texas destroy hundreds of homes


			Sep 5, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 10 comments
New wildfires in central Texas over the Labor Day weekend destroyed hundreds of homes and scorched thousands of acres as strong north winds and extremely dry conditions have whipped the fires into uncontrollable situations.


5. Op-Ed: Rick Perry tells war vets we must take ‘the fight to the enemy’


			Aug 30, 2011 by Lynn Herrmann - 1 comment
Speaking as the governor of Texas on Monday at the annual convention of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Rick Perry said the US must take “the fight to the enemy”, before we are attacked at home, sounding eerily like his predecessor, George Junior.













Corporate

Contact Us

About Us

Media Center

Advertise

Top Digital Journalists

Investors & Partners

Board of Advisers



Help & Support

Help Center

Frequently Asked Questions

Editorial Guidelines

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy

Code of Conduct






News Links

News Alerts

Digital Journal News

Digital Journal Mobile

Digital Journal Television

Digital Journal Magazine

Global Press Releases





copyright © 1998-2011 digitaljournal.com   |   powered by dell servers












Show toolbar





Go to top



					Email this
				



					Share on Facebook
				




Tweet




Leaked nude Scarlett Johansson photos lead to FBI investigation



Op-Ed: Mayweather vs. Ortiz — Will Victor Ortiz carry Pacquiao's torch?



Minnesota wildfire smoke spreads hundreds of miles away











Recipient email:

You can enter up to 10 comma-separated email addresses.






Your email:optional



Message:optional



 


























Obama rejects Texas’ request for wildfire disaster declaration
After a fire burned more than 2.2 million acres of land in the parched state of Texas, President Obama has denied the state’s request of a federal disaster declaration, forcing leading politicians to issue strong statements over the US leader’s decisi








