Special Wildfire Reports: San Diego Sends Firefighters to Texas



























































Special Wildfire Reports













































































































Tuesday, September 6, 2011





San Diego Sends Firefighters to Texas





SDFD is sending a few crew members to assist in the Texas wildfires
   APTexas has asked the nation's fire departments for help in fighting the 180 wildfires across the state.

The San Diego Fire Department will send five people to Texas this week to assist in the overwhelming wildfire situation.SDFD is awaiting orders as to when they will leave, said spokesperson Maurice Luque.
About 1,200 firefighters  battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around  the state and crews from such places as Utah, California, Arizona and  Oregon, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help.
The Texas wildfire outbreak  is one of the most devastating in history. More than 1,000 homes have  been destroyed and roughly 180 fires have erupted in the past week  across the rain-starved Lone Star State.
Copyright NBC San Diego/Associated Press
Source:  San Diego Sends Firefighters to Texas | NBC San Diego 




Posted by
USWFA


at
7:35 PM



























0
comments:
        






Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
















Follow by Email






























USWFA
















Smokey Bear






























To Purchase Our Decals Click The Decal





























Twitter














AzEIN Emergency Bulletin System (EBS)

Get the AzEIN Emergency Bulletin System (EBS) widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)











Fire Safety

  We still have immediate openings in upcoming courses. Take advantage of these training opportunities!   Fatality Notices Search Results » 











Contact US

The United States Wildland Firefighters Association:Email: uswfa@live.com











Join Us On Facebook
















Join Us On Twitter













Wildland Fire Links


Aerial Firefighting.com
Alaska Interagency Coordination Center
Arizona Interagency Wildfire
Associated Aerial Firefighters
Bureau Of Indian Affairs Fire
Bureau Of Land Management Fire
Eastern Area Coordination Center
Eastern Great Basin Coordination Center
Inciweb Fire Incidents
National Interagency Fire Center
Northern California Geographic Coordination Center
Northern Rockies Coordination Center
Northwest Interagency Coordination Center
Rocky Mountain Coordination Center
Southern Area Coordination Center
Southern California Geographic Coordination Center
Southwest Coordination Center
U.S. Forest Service
United States Wildland Firefighters Association
Western Great Basin Coordination Center
























































USWFA And United States Wildland Firefighters AssociationAll Rights Reserved Copyrights  2011. Simple template. Powered by Blogger.































