
	Texas Wildfire Toll: 1,386 Homes, 2 Lives - Bastrop fire just 30% contained























                         
                    







What's New



Hot Topics




entertainment


celebrity


Rick Perry


Rick Perry 2012


Election 2012


President Obama


special election


Lady Gaga


Tareq and Michaele...


Tareq Salahi




Log In


















	                         
	                        






                            Snappy newsletters. Simple Facebook sharing. Spirited comments. Sweet features are waiting… 
                            

                                    GET THEM NOW!
                                






























TOP STORIES
POLITICS
GREAT FINDS
OPINION
TABLOIDS
US
WORLD
MONEY
SCIENCE
TECH
HEALTH
ENTERTAINMENT
LIVING
MORE

CELEBRITY
CRIME
GREEN
MEDIA
POLITICS
SPORTS


















More US Stories»





































































































































































































Texas Wildfire Toll: 1,386 Homes, 2 Lives
Bastrop fire just 30% contained






                                    
                                        By Evann Gastaldo,
                                         Newser Staff
                                


                            Posted Sep 8, 2011 11:00 AM CDT
                            
                            
                        







                                            STORY
                                        




                                            COMMENTS
                                            (13)
                                        










































Bookmark & Share






Digg
Fark
LinkedIn
StumbleUpon


Delicious
Google Buzz
Reddit
Tumblr

















                                                                    (Newser)
                                                                 –
                                                                Texas’ Bastrop Wildfire has already been named the state’s worst ever, and it continues to rage: Now 1,386 homes have been destroyed, and the fire is just 30% contained. Two people have died, one of them a city of Austin employee found inside his home. The fire has burned about 38,000 acres and has affected a 25 mile by 20 mile area, MyFox Austin reports.
                                                            

                                                                Black Hawk and Chinook helicopters, as well as 366 firefighters, have been battling the blaze. Officials hope to contain more of the fire before winds worsen tomorrow, but they have warned containment could still be days away. More than 5,000 residents have been displaced, school has been canceled, roads have been closed, and 4,300 are without power. Meanwhile, another wildfire broke out this week and consumed 27 homes, but has been 100% contained.




































                                                    An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (AP Photo/Eric Gay)
                                                











                                                    Fire fighters from the Coppell Fire Department hit hot spots on a burned down house with water as they go to the wildfire-affected areas September 7, 2011 in Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (Getty Images)
                                                











                                                    Fire fighters from the Coppell Fire Department prepare to hit a burned down house with water as they go to the wildfire-affected areas September 7, 2011 in Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (Getty Images)
                                                











                                                    Gaye Jaco (front) hugs her stepdaughter Jennifer Leaver upon returning to their burned down home on the east side of Lake Bastop on September 6, 2011 outside Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (Getty Images)
                                                











                                                    Bastrop residents line the edge of Highway 21 and watch a large wildfire flare up in Bastrop State Park September 6, 2011 in Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (Getty Images)
                                                











                                                    This photo provided by Texas Parks and Wildlife shows a fire burning in Bastrop State Park in Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (AP Photo/Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation, Chase A. Fountain)
                                                












ADVERTISEMENT(Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.)




View larger images >>


 

« Prev« Prev | Next »Next »

Slideshow














CLICK BELOW TO VOTE


9%



7%





65%



2%





14%



2%







    To report an error on this story, notify our editors.







OTHER STORIES ON OUR RADAR

 




Getty Images




                        S&M Model Has Two Dead Boyfriends (Daily Intel)
                    



                        Did Madonna Tell Volunteers ... Not to Look at Her? (HuffPo)
                    



                        Female Basketball Star Killed in Case of Mistaken Identity (NewsOne)
                    



                        Megan Fox: I Don't Have Enough Money to Have Kids (HuffPo)
                    



                        Obese Nanny Crushes Infant (The Stir)
                    

 

Partner Links





A snapshot of the day's best news stories.












|













THE GRID


POPULAR


CHANNELS


CHANNELS


Set your default tab »





View Larger Grid












                    Grid Position Saved
                

Reset Grid


                These
                writers are approved by Newser.  
            

What's the Front Page?


All
Today
Yesterday
Pick a Date


                    Grid Position Saved
                

Reset Grid




By Views
By Comments
By Likes









































































































































 


MORE STORIES


 



Back to top of Grid









COMMENTS


Read the comment policy



            Showing 
            3 
            of 
            13 comments
        






                    Buckshot
                

                    Sep 8, 2011 12:08 PM CDT
                



                Rick Perry and his Republican buddies cut the funding for the Texas volunteer firefighters last year trying to cover a $27 Billion deficit in Texas. This fire just might just have been controlled better with the help that didn't get hired. Penny wise pound foolish dumbass 60 year old cowboy with his hair dyed.
            






                    Dave99
                

                    Sep 8, 2011 11:18 AM CDT
                



                Another mess made by a Bush clone (Perry) that somebody else will have to clean up.

Perry cut firefighting funds by 75% 6 months ago.


            






                    Mugwump
                

                    Sep 8, 2011 11:05 AM CDT
                



                Well they shouldn't have been living in such a flammable area.  If they aren't going to use their heads and live somewhere less dry they shouldn't expect the rest of us to throw money at them-they should be left to rot.  
Ron Paul 2012!
            




View all 13 comments
Leave a comment













What's Popular Now on Facebook






                    Ron Paul's Ill Ex-Campaign Manager Died Uninsured
                









                    86% of Americans Are OK With Interracial Marriage
                

























 

MyFox Austin
(Source Grid »)









US







 
Texas
•
fires
•
wildfires
•
fire
•
Texas wildfires








MOST POPULAR STORIES



[
By Views
]


[
By Comments
]






1.

Gaga Flashes Photogs ... Er, What Was That?



2.

Detroit Woman, 101, Evicted From Home of 58 Years



3.

McGinniss Book: Palin Had One-Night Stand, Used Coke



4.

Pennsylvania Rule Change by GOP May Doom Obama



5.

Ron Paul's Ill Ex-Campaign Manager Died Uninsured







1.

McGinniss Book: Palin Had One-Night Stand, Used Coke

100


2.

Ron Paul's Ill Ex-Campaign Manager Died Uninsured

99


3.

Nearly 1 in 6 in US Lives in Poverty

99


4.

Pennsylvania Rule Change by GOP May Doom Obama

93


5.

Virginia School Board Sued Over Ten Commandments

87

























Newser by Users Stories


See more stories written by our users »




 
















More Newser Stories
 



Texas Fires' Toll: 1,000 Homes and Counting


Firefighters still trying to contain blazes fed by Tropical Storm Lee
                    (AP) - More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said today. Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to Texas, toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin, where a fast-moving blaze destroyed nearly 600 homes yesterday. More»





Texas Wildfire Is 'Worst Ever'


Nearly 500 homes destroyed; 3.5M acres charred this year
                    (NEWSER) - Wildfires continued to ravage Central Texas yesterday as firefighters battled the most devastating single fire in Texas history, the Los Angeles Times reports. As of yesterday, 476 homes had been destroyed in Bastrop County, east of Austin; firefighters battled the flames as they tore through thousands of acres. With 40 square miles already charred, the fire remained a threat, though no one has been seriously injured, the American-Statesman notes. “This one is as mean-looking as I've ever seen,” said Gov. Rick Perry. More»





300 Homes Go Up in Texas Fire


Mom, child killed in separate blaze in tinderbox state
                    (NEWSER) - A mother and child have been killed in a blaze near Dallas, while another "catastrophic" Texas wildfire has destroyed 300 homes and sent thousands of residents near Austin fleeing for their lives. The 16-mile-long Austin fire has burned through 14,000 acres and is now threatening an additional 700 houses, reports the American-Statesman . Firefighters were battling a dozen brush and grass blazes throughout eastern and central Texas yesterday as dry conditions and winds whipped up by Tropical Storm Lee turn the state into a tinderbox. Two of the fires were started when flames jumped from barbeque pits, and one ignited as a teen burned love letters outdoors, said officials. More»





6 States Ablaze, 1.2M Acres Lost


OK, fire not being caused by illegal immigrants, admits John McCain
                    (NEWSER) - Six states are ablaze in a searing summer that's breaking records for wildfires. More than 1.2 million acres have already burned and some 10,000 people have been forced to flee their homes as flames devour land in Arizona, New Mexico, California, and Colorado, as well as Georgia and Texas. Some 3,500 firefighters have battled Arizona's Wallow fire that has consumed some 500,000 acres, and 700 smoke-eaters are wrestling the Monument fire near Sierra Vista in the state. "I feared for my husband, my animals and for the air quality," one fleeing Arizonan told ABC News . Also hardest hit is Texas, suffering its worst drought in history, where some 15,000 acres have burned in temperatures topping 100 degrees. More»





Hutchison: Obama Has 'Bias' Against Texas


GOP senator claims president doesn't like Lone Star state
                    (NEWSER) - GOP Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison thinks President Obama has it out for Texas. "I see a bias in this administration," she said on MSNBC today. Specifically, she cites the denial of federal disaster funds for the state's recent wildfires and claims that Obama is reluctant to help secure the Mexican border. "I do think that a lot of the rhetoric has rubbed the administration wrong, and we have had to fight hard for our fair share." More»








































NEWS FROM OUR PARTNERS






Bachmann's Ex-Campaign Manager Calls 'Retardation' Comment...


Judge To GOP Congressman: Prove That You Don't Owe Child...


WATCH: Elizabeth Warren Talks Senate Bid With Rachel Maddow



More from Huffington Post »








Palmer takes charge at ADC


Ad Buyers on AOL-Microsoft-Yahoo Deal: What’s In It for Us?


Erwin Penland Enters New York Market



More from Adweek »








Anna Faris On Her Boob Job & Bulls*it Women Actress Friends


PHOTOS: Jennifer Shows Baby Bump, Olivia Wilde Calls Out...


Scarlett Johansson Nude Photos Leaked?



More from HuffPost Entertainment »








Why anti-Israel anger is mounting in Egypt: 4 theories


Why men with deep voices get the girls


Has Rick Perry turned Mitt Romney into a better candidate?



More from The Week »








Congressional Democrats on N.Y.-9 Loss: 'Only in New York!'


Willow the Cat Pulled a 'Reverse Homeward Bound'


FBI Training Material Says 'Mainstream' Muslims Are Mostly...



More from Daily Intel »









Rick Perry plays up a bogus "Texanism"


My mother, the Playboy Bunny


I cheated just once. Should I tell?



More from Salon »








Anderson Cooper Goes Shirtless for Snooki Tanning Session...


'Breaking Dawn' Trailer Reactions: Readers Gush Over...


Halle Berry Packs on PDA During Bikini Vacay in Spain...



More from Celebuzz »








'Up All Night': What It Got Right and What It Got Wrong


'Top Chef Just Desserts' Recap: Willy Wonka Would Be Proud


Naughty Eel Swims Up Man's Penis



More from The Stir »








Kwame Kilpatrick: There Is A Movement To “Lock Me Up”


Herman Cain 2012 Campaign Concealed Gay Adviser’s Role:...


Tiger Woods Struggling To Qualify For His Own Golf...



More from NewsOne »





Other Sites We Like:  
24/7 Wall St.
              |  
            Betty Confidential
              |  
            BuzzFeed
              |  
            Cracked
              |  
            Fark
              |  
            Timelines            
              |  
            The Stir
              |  
            The Frisky










About Us
What is Newser?
What Newser Does
Who's Behind Newser?
6 Myths About Newser
What People Are Saying
Contact Us
Advertise on Newser


Site
Help
How Do I Use Newser?
Why Should I Register?
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Suggest a Story


Newser By Users
Writer Central
How to Write a Summary
How to Get Your Summary Promoted
NBU Forum


Community
Discuss on Facebook
Social Networks
Site Maps
Story Index
User Story Index
Top Sources


Tools
RSS
Mobile
Desktop Wallpapers
More News
AP News Wire



What is Newser?

Face it: there's too much news. At Newser, we choose the most thought-provoking and entertaining stories from hundreds of US and international sources and reduce them to a headline, picture, and two paragraphs. And we do it 24/7—you can come back morning, noon, night (and in between) for something new that matters. Read less, know more.


Learn more »



                                ©
                                2011
                                Newser, LLC. All rights reserved.
                            

                                Partnering with:
                                










































