Texas wildfire chief: Wildfires still raging, but 'we are making successes' - CSMonitor.com


 Skip to: Content
	Skip to: Site Navigation
	Skip to: Search




















World


USA


Commentary


Business


Environment


Innovation


Science


Culture


Books










All USA Topics
Elections
Politics
Foreign Policy
Justice
Military
Society
Education
Sports
Latest News Wires









Subscribe and save 71
%


 













Advertisements



















Texas wildfire chief: Wildfires still raging, but 'we are making successes'

A break in the weather allowed firefighters to gain some ground against the historic Texas wildfires. But the battle against 22 major wildland fires has been 'problematic,' says Mark Stanford, fire operations chief of the Texas Forest Service.

							By 
		
	
				
				
	Patrik Jonsson, Staff writer /
						April 21, 2011
		











A wildfire threatens a house near Possum Kingdom, Texas, April 19. On Wednesday, federal firefighters joined the fight against massive wildfires west of Dallas-Fort Worth. Statewide, the wildfires have burned more than one million acres across bone-dry Texas in the past two weeks, affecting all but two of the state's 254 counties.
LM Otero / AP


Enlarge











Tweet

0 








A federal wildfire strike team swooped into central Texas Wednesday to help stanch a massive wildfire west of Dallas, attesting to the precariously "fluid" situation on the ground as dozens of massive conflagrations, 90 percent of them human-caused, thunder across the bone-dry Lone Star State.
Skip to next paragraph










In Pictures: Texas wildfires









Related stories



			Texas wildfires burn 'border to border;' cold front lifts hopes
	



			Wildfires in Texas: Does the Lone Star State have an arson problem?
	



			Can US handle historic Texas wildfires?
	



			Texas wildfires: why this season is one of the worst in state history
	


Topics

Natural Disasters
Accidents and Disasters
Wildfires





"We're responding to 22 fires, major significant fires, that are burning over a million acres," Mark Stanford, fire operations chief of the Texas Forest Service, told the Monitor. "It's very fluid. We'll contain some and we'll get new ones. A handful of them are problematic, although we are making successes on them."Those successes include nearly 8,000 fires put down earlier this season. Another cause for hope came from a low-pressure front that moved in Wednesday, cooling much of the state by nearly 30 degrees, settling the winds, and introducing some much-needed atmospheric moisture, if not always rain.IN PICTURES: Texas wildfiresThat moisture gives firefighters a chance to attack stubborn blazes like the so-called PK Complex west of Dallas/Fort Worth, the remote Rockhouse fire in west Texas, and the Wildcat fire near San Angelo. The break in the weather allowed firefighters "great progress" Wednesday in building containment lines, the Texas Forest Service said.And this season's fires have claimed fewer lives than many feared. While 22 people, 21 of them civilians, died during the drought-driven 2008 Texas wildfire season, the fight against this year's bigger fires has resulted in only three casualties so far.It's been a battle of stops, starts, ducks and parries for the 1,814 firefighters from 36 states, dozens of aircraft, and hundreds of pumpers and bulldozers fighting up to 40-foot flames that have at times raced the distance of a football field in a minute. Ten towns and dozens of neighborhoods have been evacuated, often for short periods, as a precaution against the unpredictable blazes affecting 252 out of Texas' 254 counties.Hobbling the effort have been winds that have stymied some of the firefighters' best offensive weapons. A squadron of heavy air tankers can't lift off if winds top 35 miles per hour.
1 | 2


							Next
							









Follow the Monitor on Facebook and Twitter. 










 












Monitor Mall.  Shop for a cause - support The Christian Science Monitor.




Read Comments

View reader comments | Comment on this story




					These comments are not screened before publication. Constructive debate about the above story is welcome, but personal attacks are not. Please do not post comments that are commercial in nature or that violate any copyright[s]. Comments that we regard as obscene, defamatory, or intended to incite violence will be removed. If you find a comment offensive, you may flag it.
				


						If you have questions about comments or comment policy, check out our FAQ page.
					

						When posting a comment, you agree to our Terms of Service.
					









 USA »




Microsoft bids for buzz with Windows 8 beta-tablets. Is iPad vulnerable? (VIDEO)




 Innovation »




Uncanny Valley: Will we ever learn to live with artificial humans?




 USA »




Mariano Rivera reaches baseball milestone Tuesday night




 Business »




Despite rush, you can still get Missoni at Target





World »




Miss Universe 2011: Angola's Leila Lopes becomes fourth African winner




 USA »




LivingSocial under fire: Can daily-deal sites keep offering huge discounts?




 Science »




In search for life, more planet 'candidates' are found. Are any just right?





Making a Difference

Ned Eames uses tennis to boost inner-city reading skills and graduation rates
 

 USA »




Rugby World Cup: US starts play Sunday, as part of pool stage action




 Science »




GRAIL space mission will paint a fuller picture of the moon




 Innovation »




Marty McFly shoes go on auction to benefit Michael J. Fox Foundation 




 The Culture »




Warrior: movie review
















Understanding the basics of your credit score can help you score the best mortgage Relocation.com






About these ads 








Most viewed





			Super-Earth: Newly discovered planet could potentially support life
	



			Shoshana Hebshi, Ohio woman shocked by being taken from plane in US 
	



			'God Bless America'? Not in high school math class, US judges rule.
	



			Denmark's election a litmus test for Europe's far-right politics
	



			PlayStation Vita gets 2011 release date (but only in Japan) 
	



 



Photos of the day
09.14.11 »













CSMonitor.com on Facebook


 
















In Pictures



Space photos of the day: Extreme heat
 



Inside CSMonitor.com:






 Future NASA rocket unveiled, designed to reach moon and beyond
					
The design of the new NASA rocket draws on key systems from the space shuttle and Ares programs. The agency anticipates launching the first demonstration version of the rocket by 2017.			 


			Denmark's election a litmus test for Europe's far-right politics
	


Global News Blog:

			How Europe sees the US a decade after 9/11
	


Global News Blog:

			Good Reads: Taliban's Kabul attack, looming demise of Al Qaeda... and the euro
	

Are you ready for the presidential primaries? Take our quiz.


 





About these ads 




What happens when ordinary people decide to pay it forward? Extraordinary change. See how individuals are making a difference... 



Ned Eames runs Tenacity, a fast-growing nonprofit that teaches tennis and literacy to middle-schoolers and some high school youths. He’s eyeing expansion to elementary schools.


Ned Eames uses tennis to boost inner-city reading skills and graduation rates
Tennis helped Ned Eames thrive during his childhood – now he uses it to help Boston kids improve their reading skills and stay in school.







Become part of the Monitor community

36K on Facebook | 12K on Twitter | 2,250 on YouTube


























Sponsored Links




Booking Agency


Grabow Entertainment Agency






Business Resources


Business Cards






Financial Services


Swiss Annuities











Fitness


Endless Pools Swimming Machines





Legal Services


Legal Marketing





Whistleblower






Real Estate


International Shipping


Mortgage Calculator


Moving


Moving Companies


Real Estate










Speakers Bureau


Christian Speakers


Celebrity Speakers Bureau


Motivational Speakers Bureau


Sports Speakers Bureaus






Web Services

Best
          Dedicated Server

Dedicated Servers


Hosting


















About these ads


Home
About
Content Map
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Text
Specials
Multimedia
Make Us Your Home Page


Careers
Corrections
Find us online
Advertise With Us
Monitor Mall
Today's Article on Christian Science



© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. 
		
















    
 





