lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2006 » October






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Tuesday, October 31, 2006
Malcolm McNeill

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:09 am 
 


Malcolm McNeill is an illustrator, concept artist and comics artist based in New York. His work has appeared in publications like The New York Times, National Lampoon and titles for Marvel Comics.
McNeill was collaborating with William S. Burroughs, before his death, on an “word/image novel” called Ah Pook is Here (image above, top), based, I believe, on a short story by the same name (which was also the inspiration for an animated short by Philip Hunt). McNeill worked on the project with Burroughs intermittently for seven years. Unfortunately the project was eventually abandoned because of insufficient funding. The glimpse of the work is tantalizing. It looks like McNeill is playing with the comics narrative form in some interesting and novel ways.
McNeill is at work on his own graphic novel, 0º, and a non-fiction graphic narrative called 1%, in which he also seems to be playing with narrative conventions. It’s too bad that the images on the site are relatively small.
He wrote and illustrated a science fiction comic series called Tetra (above, two images at bottom, right) that ran in Gallery magazine for two years.
He has also done concept design for TV, including concept, design and art direction for the Saturday Night Live opening sequence in which the cast appeared as giants among the buildings of New York, as well as a number of commercial spots.
There are some nicely done illustrations for a dinosaur-themed project in the Kids section (above, image at bottom, left), for which he lists contributions of character design and script development but doesn’t indicate the name of the project. 
Addendum: Malcolm has let me know that he in now in LA, not NY, he’s just completed a book about the collaboration with Burroughs, which took place in the 70′s, and the book will include the artwork in various stages of completion. The dinosaur images are for a book/film called “Pterrence with a P”, which he storyboarded, but has left to work on 0º. He also notes that anyone interested in contacting him for professional inquiries can simply ask for larger versions of the images.
Note: Site contains NSFW images.
Addendum 2 (9/11/07): McNeill has posted a sited devoted specifically to the Burroughs project, which is now spelled Ah Puch is Here. There is now a fairly extensive interview with malcom McNeill posted on RealityStudio.org, and another on George Laughead’s Beats in Kansas, in which he talks about collaborating with Burroughs.


Link: www.malcolmmcneillart.com/

Posted in:  Comics,Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Monday, October 30, 2006
Chris Appelhans

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:34 am 
 


I chanced on Chris Appelhans from a two-month old link from John Nevarez’s blog, did a little digging and found that he is being widely mentioned at the moment. Good thing because his own site has some yummy art but very little actual biographical or background info.
Chris Appelhans is a visual development artist who, among other projects, worked extensively on the new movie Monster House. His previsualization art for that movie is particularly striking (images above), and there are a number of images from the project on his site.
There are also images from an upcoming project that is an adaptation of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland  which apparently takes place in a modern urban/sci-fi setting called Underworld. Art from these and other projects can be accessed from Appelhans’ Portfolio page, along with landscape sketches, doodles and an animated Superman short. 
There is also a link there to the archive of his series of short webcomics, frank and frank.
Appelhans is featured in the Art of Monster House book and is a contributor to the Flight 1 and Flight 2 comics anthologies.
There is a nice post on Stainless Steel Droppings which indicates that Appelhans is a Pixar employee and goes into more detail on his current and upcoming projects. Appelhans is also an instructor for the Gnomon School of Visual Effects.
Link via John Nevarez


Link: www.froghatstudios.com/
Portfolio mirror with additional sections
Stainless Steel Droppings post
Drawn! post
Prints from Gallery Nucleus

Posted in:  Comics,Concept & Visual Dev.,Webcomics   |   1 Comment »


Sunday, October 29, 2006
Ivan Bilibin

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:46 am 
 


Every once in a while I stumble across something by accident that turns out to be a great find. 
I was in the Met in New York last weekend and they have a wonderful practice (fortunately in common with many major museums lately) of rotating works into view from their collection of drawings, prints and photographs that ordinarily can’t be on permanent display because of sensitivity to light. One of the many upsides to this is that works come to light that might not make it to the curator’s list for major displays and wouldn’t be seen under other circumstances. 
I was walking by a case in which some lushly illustrated books were on display and noticed that they were open to wonderful, brightly colored illustrations by an illustrator I was not familiar with. I took some photos (image above) and noted the artist’s name: Ivan Bilibin. On looking him up, I was pleased to find that there were a number of resources on the web, and I’ve listed what I could find for you in the links below.
Bilibin was a Russian illustrator working, more or less, during the peak times for great illustration around the turn of the 20th Century, but he seems to have been outside of the mainstream and took most of his influences from Russian folk art, Medieval and Renaissance art, Art Nouveau, and the open line and filled color style of Japanese prints. (See my posts on Hokusai, Yoshida and Hasui.) 
Bilibin is most famous for his illustrations of Russian fairy tales which he illustrated with a colorful clear line style that incorporates decorative elements both within the images and at times surrounding them.
Bilibin eventually moved into stage and costume design for operas and ballets and also ventured into murals and straightforward landscape painting.
I was also delighted to find that there are books available with his illustrations, including Russian Fairy Tales, although I haven’t see them first hand yet.


Link: Bio and illustrations on Wikipedia (16 illos)
FantasyGallery
Illustrations and bio on Matt McArdle site
Illustrated bio on Bud Plant Illustrated Books
SurLalane Fairy Tales
Auburn University (many costumes and stage sets)
Artcyclopedia (links)

Posted in:  Illustration   |   8 Comments »


Saturday, October 28, 2006
Laurelines (Laura Frankstone)

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:40 pm 
 

All artists go through periods of difficulty, where the act of creation becomes more of a chore than a joy, or ideas dry up, or we reach those plateaus where progress seems to cease, or we are pressed with doubt or even fear about our abilities (or lack thereof). 
When this happens, the logical thing to do is to look around for some way to change things, shake things up, wake up our muse (or have a fling with another) and get going again. Few of us though, will approach it so thoroughly as to draw up and dedicate ourselves to a systematic plan.
Laura Frankstone is an artist who has been posting her watercolors, drawings and sketches to her blog Laurelines since early 2005 (if not longer). 
On January 1 of 2006, she embarked on a year-long plan of “self-apprenticeship” to revitalize her art life. She set aside each month of the year as a particular topic, January: interiors, February, food and dining, March: trees, etc. and devoted herself to doing a drawing a day through that period. (I mentioned that painter Jon Conkey os doing something similar with his Themeworks project in my last post on Painting a Day blogs.)
In addition she is taking classes in digital art, endeavoring to change mediums, even working in mediums she’s not comfortable with and trying to extend her reach in many directions.
She has managed to crown this program with a highlight that would be the envy of many artists, myself included, taking the month of October in Paris and dedicating her time there to travel sketches. The site also inclludes older travel sketches from other parts of Europe and the US.
I enjoy travel sketches to begin with, and particularly ones of Paris. Frankstone’s recent posts are filled with her direct, unfussy pencil and watercolor impressions of scenes around Paris and often in the Luxemborg Gardens.
You can view them in a gallery mode, but if you view them in place in the blog, you get the benefit of her description of the time and place and her approach to the sketch, which gives you even more of a feeling for being there. 
It’s worth noting that even in the midst of the wonders of Paris, Frankstone finds worthwhile subjects in seedpods from trees and other simple objects.
One of the other ways to break out of an artistic slump is to ride along with another artist for a while, watching over their shoulder for inspiration, even if it’s just enough inspiration to say, “Yes, I should pick up my sketchbook and draw today”.
 


Link: laurelines.typepad.com/
 Paris in October sketches
Travel Sketches

Posted in:  Painting a Day,Sketching,Watercolor and Gouache   |   3 Comments »


Friday, October 27, 2006
Chris Gall

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:57 am 
 


Chris Gall is an illustrator and author living in Arizona, and is also an adjunct professor at the University of Arizona.
His paintings seem to have a social realist, heroic WPA mural sensibility to them, and occasionally feel a bit like Thomas Hart Benton doing illustrations for Popular Science. 
What I find most interesting, though, are his engravings, which I would have taken for colored pen and ink drawings had he not listed them that way. These have a terrific mix of strong, graphic color and controlled line work, along with a bold sense of composition that again takes cues from 30′s and 40′s posters and illustrations. 
Gall doesn’t indicate on the site specifically what these illustrations were originally for, but his clients include Time, Newsweek, The Washington Post, The New York Times, Harper Collins, Nike, Ford, and many others.
Almost any of the pieces in the “engravings” section of his site would make a terrific poster. Gall does, in fact, offer Giclée prints and other items if you contact him, but doesn’t have a store per se on the site. 
Gall is also the author/illustrator of three books. He spent 4 years as a professional stand-up comedian and currently gives presentations in schools in which he presumably uses some of those same skills.


Link: www.chrisgall.com/
Workbook space

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, October 26, 2006
Garry Trudeau

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:14 am 
 


When I first came across Doonesbury I was a bit put off. I just didn’t like the drawing. The figures lacked geometry, the linework seemed weak and I just didn’t get the dark circles under the eyes thing. 
I was ready to toss it off as another example of the declining state of newspaper comics in the latter half of the 20th Century, but… the writing was brilliant.
So it’s not the art per se that I admire about Doonsebury, but Trudeau’s masterful use of the comics medium, which consists, of course, of both pictures and words. 
Trudeau wasn’t the first to carry sophisticated political satire to the comics page, Walt Kelly’s amazing Pogo was taking on McCarthyism and other issues of the day long before Michael Doonesbury first moved into B.D.’s dorm room, but Trudeau has done it with a depth, boldness and dogged persistence that is just amazing. 
A lot of time has passed since the inception of the strip, and Trudeau and Doonesbury, along with the rest of us, have gone through some changes. Over the years the quality of the strip has waxed and waned, but remained generally high, and I gave Trudeau a lot of credit simply for passing the seven year mark. 
It seemed to me that, while unfunny comics like Beetle Bailey or Hagar the Horrible could go on forever, the strips that were actually funny to me, like The Far Side, Bloom County and Bill Watterson’s brilliant Calvin and Hobbes, demanded so much of their creators that they went into burn-out mode after six or seven years, went on hiatus, returned for a year or so and then retired altogether from the grind of doing a daily comic.
For a brief time, several years ago, I was in discussion with Jay Kennedy of King Features over the possibility of doing a strip, and in the process I realized that it was something I couldn’t do. I couldn’t write a funny (to me) gag comic strip every day, 365 days a year. I don’t know how the funny ones actually do it, even for seven years.
Trudeau not only passed the seven year mark, (though he did take a hiatus) he’s carried on for 35 years and shows no sign of letting up, In fact, after some years of weaker strips, Doonesbury has bounced back, revitalized and reinvigorated by a storyline in which Trudeau has attempted to tackle the complexities of the life of returning disabled veterans. He took one of his longest running characters, the college football star B.D., sent him to Iraq (again) and let the war send him home an amputee. 
The storyline has evolved over the last two years in a way that is strikingly complex, richly human and funny to boot, all within the space of those four tiny panels every day. 
This is so far above the warmed-over oatmeal that passes for comics writing in most newspaper strips these days that it boggles the mind. 
Through it all Trudeau himself has been something of a shadow figure, shunning publicity and refusing interviews. Gene Weingarten, a writer for the Washington Post, has finally gotten to hang with Trudeau for an extended period and has produced an insightful and fascinating article called Doonesbury’s War,  about Trudeau, and in particular, his involvement with the returning disabled veteran storyline to which he has become so dedicated. It’s a fascinating read, and even if you don’t agree with Trudeau’s political stance, you may find the story worthwhile and enlightening.
Weingarten hosts a regular onine chat for tha Post called Chatological Humor, and the transcript of the one on Trudeau is posted here.
In the course of the original article Weingarten talks about Trudeau’s efforts to improve his drawing, dispels the rumors that he no longer draws the strip (the strip is inked by his assistant Don Carlton, but Trudeau continues to draw it himself) and delves into his deadline anxiety and the other issues any daily cartoonist must deal with.
Over the years Trudeau’s drawing has gotten more sophisticated, improved dramatically in fact, but I have to admit I still don’t like it much, and I still don’t get the dark circles under the eyes thing, but… the writing is brilliant.


Link: Washington Post article Doonesbury's War
Doonesbury (on Slate)

Posted in:  Comics   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, October 25, 2006
Americans in Paris

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:40 am 
 


Say what you will, but as far as I’m concerned, Paris is the capital of the world.
Well, if we have any pride in ourselves as human beings, it should be. There may be other cities that could lay claim to that title on the basis of commerce, power, wealth or sheer size, but Paris, if aliens were to come down and ask, represents what a beautiful, entrancing, inspirational, livable, colorful and spectacularly glorious city we humans can make if we set our minds to it and back it up with our finest craftsmen, architects, designers and artists.
Little wonder it has been attracting the attention of artists for generations, particularly American artists in the latter half of the 19th Century, who flocked there for inspiration, instruction and to connect with the planet’s glowing center of art and culture.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York (a city that is no slouch when it comes to culture but, sorry, isn’t in the same league with Paris), is hosting an absolutely wonderful exhibit of some of the American painters who went to Paris at that time to study and exhibit, in other words, some of the best American painters ever. This list includes many of the painters I particularly admire because they fit into the area of “realism under the influence of Impressionism” that I really enjoy.
The show is called Americans in Paris and is a spectacularly high-level show, featuring great works by John Singer Sargent, Childe Hassam, James McNeil Whistler, Celia Beaux, John Henry Twatchman, Charles Courtney Curran, J. Alden Weir, Robert Vonnoh, John White Alexander, Winslow Homer, Thomas Eakins,  William Metcalf, Charles Sprague Pearce, Charles Edmund Tarbell and more. 
Wow.
(Image above, clockwise from top-left: Sargent, Alexander, Curran, Pearce, Hassam, Whistler.)
The exhibit not only features these great artists, but many are represented by some of their best works, including several paintings that I have wanted to see in person for years, like Sargent’s stunning group portrait of The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit and Fishing for Oysters at Cancale (the small version),  Alexander’s Isabella and the Pot of Basil (that I show here), Hassam’s Grand Prix Day and unexpected delights like Charles Curran’s Afternoon in the Cluny Garden, Paris, Harry van der Weyden’s Morning Labor on the Seine and several amazing little paintings by Charles Sprague Pearce.
The show runs from yesterday, October 24th, 2006, to January 28, 2007. I plan to see it again if I can. Short of traveling to Paris (sigh), it’s as close as I can get in terms of inspiration for this American.


Link: Americans in Paris at the Met
Onine feature with images of all the paintings and zoom and scroll feature

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »


Tuesday, October 24, 2006
Dave Malan

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:41 pm 
 


Dave Malan is an illustrator and gallery artist based in Salt lake City, where he works for Disney Games. The work displayed on his site and blog, however, is mostly his personal and gallery work, which ranges from straightforward portraiture to highly finished oils in a style that leans to caricature-like exaggeration.
The paintings on his site are mostly portraits, often of family members, painted in a frank “direct observer” kind of approach, at times incorporating a landscape or interior background. The illustrations are caricature style paintings that have a fun rendered cartoon feeling to them. The drawings, in pencil or NuPastel, are a bit of a mix, but tend toward straightforward portraiture.
His blog, Brilliant Anyway, features his work in a more casual format, includes work he doesn’t consider finished or refined enough to post on the main site, comments on the images and the process behind them and additional drawings.  He also has some excellent links to the web presence for artists that he admires, his taste in which would be of interest to readers of lines and colors.
Malan seems to be fascinated in particular with faces, whether portraits or caricature, and often posts sketches from his sketchbook of people from the news or popular entertainment. 
Malan is a contributor the Avalance Software Blog, a group blog where artists for the company (which is in some way affiliated with Disney) post artwork, often in response to a topic suggested by one of them. 
Dave Malan is married to illustrator Natalie Malan.


Link: http://davemalan.com/
http://brilliantanyway.blogspot.com/
Site Quirks: The galleries in the main site have a JavaScript rollover that may or may not be linked to pop-ups of larger images. If so, I couldn't get them to work in Safari or Firefox mac, even with pop-up blockers off. The images on the blog, however, are linked directly to larger versions.

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration   |   3 Comments »


Monday, October 23, 2006
Jean-Honoré Fragonard

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:40 pm 
 

I’m in New York for a few days (hence no post yesterday), and I had a chance to see a number of shows. One is a small but beautiful show of French Rococo drawings at the newly renovated and expanded Morgan Library and Museum, “Fragonard and the French Tradition“, with drawings by Fragonard, his mentors Francois Boucher and Charles-Joseph Natoire, and contemporaries Hubert Robert, Jean-Babtiste Greuze and Jacques-Louis David.
The exhibit is drawn (if you’ll excuse the expression) from the Morgan’s own superb collection. The show is small, but beautiful.
Jean-Honoré Fragonard was a French Rococo painter whose playful, sensual and often erotic canvasses, along with those of Boucher, exemplify the voluptuously romantic visions of  the period. 
Fragonard’s drawings, most often executed in brown inks and wash, are wonderful in their ability to appear richly detailed while, in fact, having a remarkable economy of line and texture. Foliage that might be represented by hundreds of curved strokes in the drawings of other artists, even in the case of that sublime master of quick suggestion, Rembrandt, are created by Fragonard in a flurried illusion of wonderful scribbles that somehow convince your eye that you are, indeed, looking a leaves and branches.
The luxurious color and detail in his paintings are a fascinating contrast to the directness and quick suggestion of his drawings. If you go to the Morgan show and want to see that contrast, go uptown to the Frick Collection to see their wonderful examples of his paintings from the series titled “The Progress of Love”.
 


Link: Fragonard and the French Tradition at Morgan Library
Fragonard on ARC
WebMuseum
CGFA
Artcyclopedia (links)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, October 21, 2006
Zita the Space Girl

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:52 am 
 


Zita the Space Girl is a series of charming short webcomics by Ben Hatke. 
Hatke draws Zita with a simple, somewhat cartoony outline style reminiscent of early 20th Century newspaper comics, and occasional elaborations with atmospheric color.
The home page of the site serves as a news and updates page. The Comics section has the strips posted in chronological order from the bottom up.
The bad news is that Zita is updated very infrequently (although not as infrequently as, *Ahem!*, certain other webcomics are updated). The good news is that Hatke is working on new Zita material for print.
Hatke has been a contributor to the Flight comics anthologies (see previews here and here) and is working on a Zita strip for inclusion in #4. There is a nice write-up on the Flight blog  that goes into more detail including the origins of the character and initial designs.


Link: www.zitaspacegirl.com/

Posted in:  Comics,Webcomics   |   Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






