Raging Texas wildfires destroy 1,000 homes - World - CBC News






Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to Raging Texas wildfires destroy 1,000 homes
Skip to supplementary story content
Skip to related news content
Skip to CBC accessibility page




 







CBC Global Header Navigation


CBC.ca

News
news drop down menu


Sports
sports drop down menu


Radio
radio drop down menu


TV
tv drop down menu


My Region drop down menu
 


More drop down menu
 


Watch 
Watch drop down menu


Listen
Listen drop down menu









Search CBC.ca

Submit Search


Sign Up
Log In


 







CBC News World

Major StoriesIn The News

Toronto Film Festival
High-profile abductions
Jackie Kennedy tapes
NDP leadership race


CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

World
Photo Galleries




Raging Texas wildfires destroy 1,000 homes
Four killed since outbreak began 


The Associated Press

Posted:

Sep  6, 2011  10:12 AM ET



Last Updated: 

Sep  6, 2011  10:49 PM ET



 
Accessibility Links






Related Story Content

Story Sharing Tools



Share with Add This
Print this story
E-mail this story







Related


Related Links

The science of wildfires
Life in a forest firefighters team








Accessibility Links


Beginning of Story Content
One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.
More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee's winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 116 square kilometres, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four.
"We lost everything," said Willie Clements, whose two-story colonial home in a housing development near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames.
On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand."
"This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old Clements said.Governor cuts short campaign tripPerry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, which is about 40 kilometres from Austin.
"Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," he said. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening's Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was "substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of." But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there.
Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, 120 kilometres from Bastrop, from being putting to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 1,500-hectare blaze.
"It's more difficult than it should be to get those types of assets freed up by the federal government," Perry said. "When you've got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to. If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that's a problem."
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and "we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires."1,200 firefighters battle blazeAbout 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from such places as Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.
Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping approximately 5,600 litres of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.
"We're getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies," said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.
© The Associated Press, 2011
Accessibility Links

Story Social Media

Story Tools


Report Typo
Send Feedback









Print this story
E-mail this story





Related News Content

Stay Connected with CBC News

Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter


Big Box Advertisement







Top News Headlines




Swissair crash may not have been an accident: ex-RCMP  

An investigator looking into the crash of Swissair Flight 111 near Peggys Cove, N.S., says he was prevented by senior RCMP and aviation safety officials from pursuing his theory that an incendiary device might have been the cause.  more »




Swiss bank reports $2B loss to rogue trader 

Police in London's financial district have arrested a 31-year-old man in connection with a massive loss reported by Swiss bank UBS. more »
Canada seeks Buy American exemption   

Canada is seeking an exemption from the new Buy American provisions in U.S. President Barack Obama's proposed jobs act, weeks before the exemption for the previous stimulus is set to expire. more »
VIDEO: TIFF laces up the best in costume design  

Canadian costume designers have left their mark on many fantasy, science fiction and horror films of the last decade.  more »
Randall Hopley to undergo psych evaluation  

A B.C. judge has ordered Randall Peter Hopley, accused of abducting three-year-old Kienan Hebert, to undergo a psychiatric assessment to determine if he is fit to stand trial.     more »

More Headlines »




Most Recent


Watch
Listen





Show previous slide





Show next slide




Show previous slide





Show next slide





Latest World News Headlines




Cameron, Sarkozy on aid visit to Libya

British Prime Minister David Cameron and French President Nicolas Sarkozy are in Libya to discuss aid to help the transition to democracy, becoming the first heads of government to visit Tripoli since Moammar Gadhafi fled.   more »




Canada seeks Buy American exemption   

Canada is seeking an exemption from the new Buy American provisions in U.S. President Barack Obama's proposed jobs act, weeks before the exemption for the previous stimulus is set to expire. more »
Swiss bank reports $2B loss to rogue trader 

Police in London's financial district have arrested a 31-year-old man in connection with a massive loss reported by Swiss bank UBS. more »
Red Cross says 13 mass graves found in Libya 

The International Committee of the Red Cross says at least 13 mass graves have been found in Libya over the past three weeks.   more »
Hungary metal firm fined over 'red sludge'  

Hungarian officials say the metals company whose broken reservoir flooded several towns with toxic red sludge in October, killing 10 people, has been fined roughly $643 million Cdn for environmental damages.   more »

More Headlines »




Dispatches »

Asian carp approach Great Lakes Sep. 13, 2011  1:27 PM Rick MacInnes-Rae went to Chicago to see how the most dangerous invasive aquatic species since the zebra mussel is eating its way north towards the Great Lakes -- and meet the front line fighters trying to stop it.





Connect Newsroom Blog
Hopley in Court, Economy Woes & Inside an Iranian Prison Sep. 14, 2011  6:27 PM Inside an Iranian prison. As two Americans wait for their freedom we'll talk to someone who knows what they're going through.


Google Ads











Show previous slide

Don't Miss



GREENPEACE
Turning media spectacle into action
Organization draws attention to almost every environmental issue conceivable




photos
Greenpeace: 40 years of activism
Seminal moments in the history of the environmental protest group




Joe Schlesinger
Slovakia's turnaround and European bailouts
Slovaks learning what it takes to be part of European community




photos
Jacqueline Kennedy: In her own words
Newly released audiotapes offer insight into first lady's life




photos
9/11 Memorial opens
The former site of the twin towers re-opens as 9/11 memorial plaza




photos
Kenyan pipline explosion
Deadly fuel explosion rips through a Kenyan slum




PHOTO GALLERY
U.S. remembers 9/11
U.S. remembers 9/11




Osama bin Laden
Go inside the operation to kill the al-Qaeda leader
A Fifth Estate multimedia examination of the top-secret raid in Pakistan




JAPAN
Six months later, radiation still a major worry
Craig Dale writes about the country's nuclear anxiety




RICHARD HANDLER
9/11 memorials break down our emotional defenses
Like the attacks themselves, commemorations were rich in symbolism




CHART
Unemployment rates in the U.S., 2001-2011 





10 questions
Test your knowledge of this week's top stories




Show next slide




CBC Global Footer Navigation


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Kids' CBC Wonder World
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


CBC Member Centre
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Jobs
Visit the Canadian Broadcasting Centre
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts


Independent Producers
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Tapes, Transcripts and Image Assets
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2011

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca











