lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2006 » September






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Saturday, September 30, 2006
Qi Baishi (Chi Baishi, Ch’i Pai-shih)

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:25 am 
 


Qi Baishi was a Chinese painter whose long life and career extended from the mid 19th to mid 20th centuries.
When he was young his frailty made him incapable of working the lands of his family farm and he was permitted to apprentice to a carpenter. He went on into cabinet making and carving and upon discovering The Mustard Seed Garden, the traditional manual of Chinese painting,  determined to achieve a mastery of painting. He studied traditional techniques for many years and at the age of 40 began to develop the style for which he would be known in his mature career.
His early work, which I like a lot, is more like traditional Chinese landscape painting, his mature style was a turn on the schools that emphasized the portrayal of simple small bits of nature rather than grand landscapes. He combined that ink painting style with modern colors and is renowned for his deceptively simple, colorful and intimate portrayals of flowers, insects, vegetables and grass blades.


Link: Yates Collection
Chinaculture
Chinapage
Wikipedia
About.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Friday, September 29, 2006
Esao Andrews

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:59 pm 
 

Esao Andrews’ work fits loosely into a branch of contemporary fantastic art called “pop surrealism”. 
His work often involves portrait-like images of young women in conjunction with odd elements, such as objects that are combinations of plant and animal forms, apparently intended to be a bit disconcerting.
Some of his paintings are more straightforward, almost like regular portraits (left, bottom), some look a bit like deranged children’s book illustration and some are simply odd. I wouldn’t say that the images I’ve chosen here are necessarily representative of his work, I just happen to like them in particular.
His web site has a delightfully entertaining Flash interface, one of the most amusing I’ve seen, in which a young woman sits demurely in a room with a few furnishings, and her face follows your cursor as you mouse over objects that pop up or change to reveal the sites sections. The interface is done with style and cheeky wit (she looks right at you and flashes her dress up when you choose “Paintings”) and is full of nicely imaginative details.
Unfortunately, once past the amusing nature of the interface, it’s actually not easy to navigate, the galleries consist of colored dots with no indication of previews and the images open in pop-up windows. (Who ever told artists that pop-up windows are a good way to display art work?)
If you like quirky, imaginative and oddball images, though, Esao’s work is worth the trouble to look through the galleries.
There are sections of paintings, done in oil on board, drawings, illustrations and designs for skateboard decks. There is also an archive to a previous site version. His “News” section mentions an upcoming site redesign (which promises “no pop-up windows”), but I hope he archives this one.
There isn’t much background or biographical info on the site, but there is a good interview with him on Pixelsurgeon. 
 


Link: www.esao.net

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration,Motion Graphics & Flash   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, September 28, 2006
Peter Popken

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:44 am 
 


Peter Popken is a concept artist, illustrator, visual development and storyboard artist for the film industry. He has worked on films like V for Vendetta, Aeon Flux and The Bourne Supremacy.
Many of the film concept images on his site are dramatic landscapes or cityscapes, painted in widescreen ratios. There are also character designs, storyboards and illustrations. 
He utilizes several rendering styles, from the crosshatched linework in some of the storyboards to the direct no-nonsense approach of some of the concept paintings, which can be wonderfully graphic at times with flat areas of color crafted into three dimensional shapes. 
His concept paintings are often almost monochromatic, with areas of more intense color in a different range used for emphasis and focus. Sometimes he will use a more softly rendered approach or the color-filled line style where appropriate.
Some of the movie work is labeled, but some of the storyboard work is not. I’m curious about a very cool storyboard he did for what is apparently a car ad, in which the car is injected into a patient’s bloodstream.


Site Quirks: It looks like the site in in transition between old and new sections. There are two different pages for his resume, for example. Some of the links, notably those to "Gallery" can pop up site sections in new windows, from which you can navigate back to other areas from which you can inadvertently pop up new windows and so on.  The "Storyboard" link from within Galleries section leads to single image, go back out to Home and come into Storyboards from there. The "Tutorials" link, disappointingly, leads to a "Clients Login" dead end.
Link: www.peterpopken.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, September 27, 2006
Chet Phillips (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:31 am 
 


Writing about scratchboard a few days ago prompted me to check back in with illustrator Chet Phillips, who I first posted about back in October of last year.
Phillips uses Corel Painter to create what he terms “Digital Scratchboard”, using the digital painting programs customizable tools to incise sharp edged linework as if scraping with a real scratchboard tool. (Painter, in fact has built in “scratchboard” tools, the most basic of which is my preferred tool for making digital “ink” drawings.)
Phillips has done both editorial and advertising illustration and his work has been featured in numerous books on digital painting. He often does wonderfully bold and graphic images of domestic animals in which the “scratchboard” effects start to lean toward a woodcut feeling.
His portfolios have been revamped and expanded since I last wrote about him. (Unfortunately, they’re still in the tedious “click and click back” arrangement found on so many artist’s sites.) It’s not always obvious that the gallery sections can be split into subsections with links under then main menu, so keep looking around. You can find additional styles of images (fun Tiki images, for example) in the “Merchandise” section.


Link: www.chetart.com/

Posted in:  Digital Painting,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, September 26, 2006
Ilene Meyer

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:48 am 
 


I mentioned in my post on Jacek Yerka that contemporary artists who become fascinated with the work of a particular Surrealist seldom produce work of note.
Just to prove that all rules have an exception, sometimes a shining one, there are the beautiful paintings of Ilene Meyer.
Meyer is obviously fascinated with the work of Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dali, he of the soft watches, infinite checkered plains, Freudian hallucinations and atomic deconstructions of old master paintings. 
Meyer’s work also carries influences of  Indian mandalas,  science fiction artists, “psychedelic” artists like Alex Gray and other contemporary “Surrealists”. 
I hesitate to use that word because it’s usually used inaccurately, and I would be incorrect in applying to Meyer’s work. Dali and the other Surrealists were concerned with images from the subconscious mind and were looking to shock and disturb. Meyer, despite her fascination with Dali, is looking to engender wonder and visual pleasure, quite a different intent, but fans of fantastic art can appreciate both.
Meyer’s paintings are laced with iconographic images from Dali’s oeuvre, including obvious homages such as the aforementioned soft watches, as well as her versions of Dali’s “Atomic” period objects that are sliced or “exploded” into neat segments, the infinite checkered plains (that she likes to curve into impossible topologies), distant mountains soaked in blues and oranges, serrated blocks of color defining complex forms, classical architectural forms re-rendered in impossible materials and “skins” of land or sea that reveal worlds hidden beneath. 
But she is not mimicing Dali, merely taking the influences, making appreciative references and carrying the themes off into her own direction.
She also has repeated themes of her own, including a fascination with European style clowns and jesters, transparent objects, heads of medusa, icons of chance and gambling, pyramids, glassy spheres, luxurious tropical plants,  African wildlife (particularly giraffes and zebras), radiant patterns in skies or the surface of objects, landscape surfaces that are curved and folded like cloth, and objects and surfaces that swoop, swirl and blend into one another as if melting together or being pulled apart like taffy.
One could complain that this is sort of a grab-bag of clichéd “surreal” imagery, but Meyer paints it with such enthusiasm, verve and obvious joy, that it rises above any such concerns into a kind of worship of the richness of the visual world.
Her web site, Meyerworld, has a fairly wide selection of her work and is divided into sections: “The Senses”, “The Elements”, The World”, and “The Soul”. 
The images are just large enough to get a little taste of her work, but only a taste. If you find it appealing, you should look for the much larger and better reproductions in the collection of her work, Ilene Meyer: Paintings, Drawings, Perceptions.
Addendum: Ilene writes to mention that a new book has just been released (November 2006), illustrated by her and written by D. Michael Tomkins, called The World Below. The book has its own site here.
Addendum 2: Ilene Meyer is having her first gallery showing in the U.S. in ten years at the Arts Partnership Gallery in Tuscon, AZ (125 S. Arizona Ave., 624-9977) from January 12 to February 10, 2007. 
Link suggestion courtesy of Jack Harris.


Link: www.ilenemeyer.com/
Gallery on Progressive Art Media

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Monday, September 25, 2006
The Castle of Cagliostro

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:25 am 
 


Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (Rupan Sansei: Kariosutoro no Shiro) was the first feature length animation by Japanese master Hayao Miyazaki.
Released in 1979 and soon overshadowed by films like Nausicaa, Laputa and Totoro, The Castle of Cagliostro is often overlooked in Miyazaki’s oeuvre, but undeservedly so. It’s a terrific film and one of the most fun adventure movies I can recall, animated or otherwise.
It doesn’t have the extraordinary graphic sophistication of Miyazaki’s mature work, but the backgrounds are lush and beautiful, there are intimations of the wonderful landscapes that would grace his later features and the staging and “cinematography” are excellent. (I realize “cinematography” isn’t quite the right term for animation, but I don’t know what else to use to describe the elements of composition, “camera movement” and cutting that are the equivalent of photographed films.)
You’ll also see hints of Miyazaki themes to come: wonderful flying craft, mysterious castles, dramatic landscapes and a fascination with the architecture of European cities. Also Miyazaki’s beautiful drawing, rich color and striking use of night and twilight scenes are very much in play.
You won’t find the sophisticated and thought provoking themes of Miayazaki’s later works, but in their place we have a superb lighthearted adventure fantasy that has much of the feeling of those great 1960′s spy thrillers and thief caper movies.
Although it’s part of the Lupin the III series, the story works just fine on its own. Brash, goofy and adventurous Arséne Lupin III, professional thief and inveterate playboy, is  equipped with enough gadgets, wisecracks and casually reckless daring-do to make James Bond jealous. In the course of the movie he encounters a beautiful princess, an evil count, secret passages, traps, guards, Interpol agents, former lovers, car chases and all manner of other great adventure movie fare. It’s all played out against beautifully realized settings and is artfully staged and timed.
A new print of the film that has been released by Manga Entertainment. (Unfortunately, Manga’s Flash-based site that doesn’t allow for a direct link to the info for this film.)
The new print is beautiful. The picture quality is excellent. The colors are rich and vibrant and the linework is crisp and clear. The subtitles and dub are quite good and much closer to the spirit of the original than the VHS version from the early 90′s. 
The one gaff is that Manga has inexplicably cut the film’s beautiful original opening sequence and replaced it with a montage of stills for the opening credits. (What were they thinking?! Just play the English credits before the full, complete film!! Hello?!)
Anyway, don’t let that lapse in judgement, or the poor choice in DVD cover art, dissuade you from appreciating this version. It’s still the best English language release of this wonderful film. Manga released a version in 2000 that had some other problems, make sure you look for the new one.
If you think you don’t like anime, perhaps because your impression of it is limited to giant battle robots, senseless, herky-jerky fighting amid frenetic motion lines, incomprehensible magical creatures and triangular-faced characters with enormous eyes, you should let Hayao Miyazaki show you how limited and inaccurate those impressions are; and allow him give you a taste of what you’re missing. The Castle of Cagliostro can be a great place to start.


Link: Manga Entertainment
Amazon link
Cagliostro entry on IMDB
Review and screen captures on Anime Critic
Commentary from Chris Meadows
Conversations on Ghibli
Wikipedia article

Posted in:  Animation,Anime & Manga   |   4 Comments »


Sunday, September 24, 2006
Deconstructing Roy Lichtenstein

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:29 pm 
 


Pop artist Roy Lichtenstein was most famous for his large canvasses in which he reproduced bits of popular advertisements and, in particular, panels from comic books, complete with renderings of oversize process color dots.
As much as I enjoyed seeing representations of comic panels displayed large, I always had a problem with Lichtenstein’s use of them. My most basic objection was the fact that he was treating them the way Warhol treated soup cans (and also comic panels), in that there was an assumption that the act of isolating and painting them as he had was elevating them to the status of “art”, with the tacit assumption, of course, that they were not art in the first place. 
This is not an assumption I endorse, obviously. Comic art (or graphic narrative if you want a high-tone term) is as viable an art form as any form of visual art or literature, and is actually the unique and special point where those two otherwise separate forms of human expression join. 
So, despite the fun gee-whiz campy color dot fizz of it all,  Lichtenstein’s uncredited swipes (as they are called in comic circles) from comic book artists’ work did not please me.
Not only did the panels not need to be “elevated” to the status of art, Lichtenstein’s renderings of them (image above, right) were flat, lifeless and seemingly clueless to the appeal of the original panels (above, left). This is possibly deliberate on his part, but the effect is a drab one regardless, and I have never seen anything from Lichtenstein that demonstrates an ability to draw as well as even the least talented second string comic artists whose work he cavalierly “borrowed”.
This is evident when you compare his renditions with the original comic panels, a process that has been spotty and difficult in the past but is now facilitated by a project called Deconstructing Roy Lichtenstein by David Barsalou.  
Barsalou has painstakingly found assembled and documented the original comic panels (and other sources) on which Lichtenstein based his panels. 
I should point out that Barsalou probably does not share my attitude toward  Lichtenstein’s work, and in fact, probably has the opposite opinion. I don’t want to seem like I’m putting words in his mouth. 
His project, however, is  a treat for me, because it makes it easier to say: “compare the originals”.
Link suggestion courtesy of Jack Harris.


Link: http://davidbarsalou.homestead.com/LICHTENSTEINPROJECT.html
Flickr page
Background info from Barsalou
Intro from gallery show in 2000
Wikipedia article with links to Lichtenstein's work

Posted in:  Comics,Gallery and Museum Art   |   11 Comments »


Saturday, September 23, 2006
Edwin Austin Abbey

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:30 pm 
 


Edwin Austin Abbey was an American illustrator and muralist. Born here in Philadelphia, he moved to New York as a teenager (not that the term “teenager” was used in those days) and began doing illustration for Harper’s. When he was in his 20′s, Harper’s sent him to England to do research for an illustration project and he became a lifelong Anglophile, settling in London when he was 30.
He was one of the great pen and ink illustrators of the “Golden Age” of illustration. As his career progressed, he moved into painting and large scale murals. He was commissioned to do murals for the Boston Public Library, along with sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens and painter John Singer Sargent, with whom he was friends, and created large scale works based on the quest for the Holy Grail. He also did murals and decorations for the Pennsylvania State Capitol in Harrisburg, which were finished by Sargent after Abbey’s death.
He was influenced by the Pre-Raphaelite painters, and shared their fondness for subjects from English literature, particularly Shakespeare. He did a series of wonderful works based on scenes from Shakespeare’s plays, such as the scene from Hamlet, above.
I’ve been unable to find many reproductions of his murals on the web. There are somewhat better resources for his painted illustrations. One of the best sources for his pen and ink work is Paul Giambarba’s nicely illustrated article on 100 Years of Illustration and Design.
There is a page on the John Singer Sargent Virtual Gallery that features some of Abbey’s work as well as Sargent’s charcoal portrait of him.
Abbey’s images were rich in detail, vibrant in color, full of intense contrasts of dark and light and populated by graceful figures and dramatic faces.  


Link: Ciudad de la pintura
Art Renewal Center
CGFA
Illustrated bio on BPIB
Bio on Butler Art
Artcyclopedia (links)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration   |   6 Comments »


Friday, September 22, 2006
William Wray

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:29 pm 
 

William Wray is a California painter. His blog, in fact, is titled California Painter William Wray. 
He paints quickly realized, direct and painterly images of the California landscape in the area around where he lives; and frequently posts the paintings to his blog. He works primarily en plein air and sometimes supplements the outdoor work with reference photographs and further work in the studio.
He works in a muted, often dark palette, punctuated with brighter areas and splashes of color that sometimes become the focal point of the image and sometimes push the darker forms forward. He says in his recent posts that he is trying to move toward abstraction, stepping slowly through more flattened and geometric forms in his paintings from life. 
Personally, I’m sorry to hear that, because I really like the balance he has already achieved between natural forms and abstracted blocks and chunks of color. His paintings read well as compositions, with large areas of light and dark balanced against bits of texture and detail. His brushstrokes are obvious and forceful, his subject matter is pulled from the everyday and overlooked rather than the picturesque, and his color choices owe more to Expressionism than Impressionism.
Wray has a background in animation and comics and is familiar to many for his work with painted colors on the Ren and Stimpy Show, as well as comics work for Mad Magazine and on Hellboy Jr. with Mike Mignola.
You can see a little of that history in the “springyness” of his forms at times, but most of the influence on his work seems to come from other California plein air painters, the Expressionists and the immediate nature of the California landscape itself.
 


Link: http://williamwray.blogspot.com/

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   7 Comments »


Thursday, September 21, 2006
JacksonPollock.org

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:37 am 
 


Ever wanted to be Jackson Pollock, indulge in “Action Painting”, be the darling of the smart set and express your existential angst by throwing paint at the canvas? 
JacksonPollock.org is a web site by Miltos Manetas that lets you do just that, at least virtually. It’s a Flash-based interactive in which you can spatter, drip and blob colors onto your virtual canvas to your heart’s content,  whiling away those tedious hours that could be spent doing something ridiculous, like working.
Like Mr. PicassoHead, JacksonPollock.org is essentially a fun diversion based loosely on the characteristics of the work of a famous painter.
It opens with a blank screen, with no indication of what to expect until you happen to move your mouse, and then… color happens! Based on the Flash interactive, “Splatter” by Michal Migurski of Stamen Design, the interactive responds to movements of your mouse (or stylus – Wheeee!) with lines, blobs and swaths of color. Drag, click and create! Click to change colors. Click and hold to get bigger blobs. No art training necessary!
And you don’t even get paint on your pants.
Suggested by Lisa Harris.


Link: http://jacksonpollock.org/

Posted in:  Illustration   |   6 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






