Urban Christian News: National Archives


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE














































Recently in National Category



 

 



Perry Assailed by GOP Rivals in Florida Tea Party Debate, Defends His Record 


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  2:57 AM





Republican presidential candidates (L-R) Jon Huntsman, Herman Cain, Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN), former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Rep. Ron Paul, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum during the pledge of allegiance as they prepare to debate during the event sponsored by CNN and The Tea Party Express at the Florida State fairgrounds on September 12, 2011 in Tampa, Florida. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images North America)Attacked from all sides by fellow Republicans, Texas Gov. Rick Perry softened his rhetoric if not his position on Social Security in a crackling presidential campaign debate Monday night. He fended off assaults on his record creating jobs and requiring the vaccination of schoolgirls against a cancer-causing sexually transmitted virus.


            Continue reading Perry Assailed by GOP Rivals in Florida Tea Party Debate, Defends His Record .
        





Psalm 46: Obama's 9/11 Speech Prompts Many to Look Up Meaning of Bible Passage 


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  1:55 AM





U.S. President Barack Obama (R) and first lady Michelle Obama (2R) walk towards the North Pool of the 9/11 Memorial with former President George W. Bush and his wife Laura Bush during the tenth anniversary ceremonies of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center site, September 11, 2011 in New York City. (Pool/Getty Images North America)Thousands of viewers cast their eyes on televisions Sunday as they watched the 9/11 memorial services held in New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia.


            Continue reading Psalm 46: Obama's 9/11 Speech Prompts Many to Look Up Meaning of Bible Passage .
        





Tim Pawlenty Supporters Not Quick to Follow Him in Backing Mitt Romney 


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  1:42 AM





Pawlenty didn't make his endorsement part of a greater movement of supporters to Romney.Tim Pawlenty's supporters aren't ready to follow him in his decision to back Mitt Romney -- at least not yet.


            Continue reading Tim Pawlenty Supporters Not Quick to Follow Him in Backing Mitt Romney .
        





Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal Backing Rick Perry for President 


    
                By UCN on September 13, 2011  1:42 AM





Louisiana's Indian American Governor Bobby Jindal has come out in support of Texas Governor Rick Perry for his Republican party's nomination to challenge President Barack Obama in the 2012 election. 


            Continue reading Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal Backing Rick Perry for President .
        





Gabrielle Giffords Not Certain She Will Sit Down for Interview with Diane Sawyer 


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011  5:46 PM





(AP Photos)A spokesman for the recovering congressman says that she hasn't agreed to have the ABC interview recorded.


            Continue reading Gabrielle Giffords Not Certain She Will Sit Down for Interview with Diane Sawyer .
        





Kids in Fire-Ravaged Texas Town Leave Hotels, Return to School


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011  5:31 PM





Wildfire evacuees David Gabrile, left, and his wife, MaryAnn Gabrile, react after learning they will not be allowed to return to their home during meeting at Waller High School for evacuated Waller County residents Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011, in Waller, Texas. (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Melissa Phillip)Paying attention in class may never have been so hard for children who started school Monday after the most-destructive wildfire in Texas history left hundreds of their families homeless and many with little more than the clothes on their backs.


            Continue reading Kids in Fire-Ravaged Texas Town Leave Hotels, Return to School.
        





MLK Memorial Set to be Dedicated October 16 


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011 11:14 AM





Tourists walk by the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial as the wind and rain from Hurricane Irene reaches Washington, D.C., on Aug. 27. (J. David Ake/AP)Organizers have set a new date in October to dedicate the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial in Washington, D.C. Hurricane Irene forced them to postpone the event in August, days before 250,000 people were expected to attend.


            Continue reading MLK Memorial Set to be Dedicated October 16 .
        





As Republican Candidates Head to Florida for Key Debate, Romney Brings Pawlenty Endorsement 


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011 11:03 AM





Eight of the 2012 GOP contenders are set to take the debate stage again. (John Shinkle/POLITICO)Florida finds itself in the thick of the battle for the White House Monday, hosting a Republican debate in which the fate of benefit programs could take center stage in a state with a huge proportion of elderly voters.


            Continue reading As Republican Candidates Head to Florida for Key Debate, Romney Brings Pawlenty Endorsement .
        





September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011  6:41 AM





Family members gather at the edge of the North Pool during anniversary ceremonies at the World Trade Center site in New York on Sept. 11, 2011. (Justin Lane / Pool via Reuters)The plot of land that has been known for a decade as "the pile," ''the pit" and "ground zero" will welcome the public Monday for the first time since that terrible morning in 2001, and visitors will find a place transformed from the gray ruins place so seared into our collective imagination.


            Continue reading September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today .
        





9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011  5:01 AM





Michael Lehrman, Executive Managing Director of Cantor Fitzgerld and Co., bows his head at the names of some of the over 600 employees from Cantor Fitzgerald who lost their lives in the 2001 terrorist attacks, Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011. Sunday marked the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. (AP Photo, Carolyn Cole, Pool)Believers across the nation heard from faith leaders this weekend as millions of Americans wrestled with the spiritual challenges and lessons of 9/11.


            Continue reading 9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths .
        




« Music |
                                Main Index |
                                Archives
                                | News »










 




Perry Assailed by GOP Rivals in Florida Tea Party Debate, Defends His Record 


Psalm 46: Obama's 9/11 Speech Prompts Many to Look Up Meaning of Bible Passage 


Tim Pawlenty Supporters Not Quick to Follow Him in Backing Mitt Romney 


Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal Backing Rick Perry for President 


Gabrielle Giffords Not Certain She Will Sit Down for Interview with Diane Sawyer 


Kids in Fire-Ravaged Texas Town Leave Hotels, Return to School


MLK Memorial Set to be Dedicated October 16 


As Republican Candidates Head to Florida for Key Debate, Romney Brings Pawlenty Endorsement 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










