
    MTV Newsroom






















Home


MTV Sites


MTV


MTV2


Tr3s


mtvU


MTV Geek!


MTV Iggy


MTV Act


All MTV Sites




Fashion Week 2011
New York Fashion Week






MTV Home

MTV Home


music videos


full episodes


tv schedule


artists a-z


movie trailers


style


online games


mobile


shop




Music





Music Main


All Artists


Buzzworthy Music Blog


Music News


Radio


Lyrics


Music Video Charts


Artists A-Z


A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
#




Music Videos


MTV Picks


Most Popular


Video Premieres


MTV2 Video Premieres


Playlists


Artist Hosted: Playlibs


Live Performances


Live Concerts in HD


Top Music Videos By Year




Artists


Browse A-Z


Our Picks


Most Popular


PUSH: Artist Of The Week


Cobra Starship: Posted


MTV Music Meter: New Artists Ranking


Exclusive Artist Photos




Specials


2011 Video Music Awards


$5 Cover Seattle


Best Of 2010


EMA


Live In NYC


MTV Unplugged


O Music Awards


Summer Music Festivals


mtvU Woodie Awards





pop


Pop Music Videos


Buzzworthy Blog


Rhapsody Blog




Rock


Rock Main


Headbangers Ball






Hip-Hop


Hip-Hop Main


Sucker Free


RapFix Blog


Mixtape Daily




indie


Indie Main


Subterranean


MTV Hive







|

Shows





Shows Main


All Shows


TV Schedule


MTV Shows Gossip Blog


Most Popular Video


Show Photos


Be on MTV


Shop MTV Shows




Popular Shows



10 on Top


16 and Pregnant


America's Best Dance Crew


Awkward.


Beavis and Butt-Head


The Challenge: Rivals


Cuff'd


Death Valley


Disaster Date




Extreme Cribs


Good Vibes


I Just Want My Pants Back


I Used To Be Fat


Jersey Shore


MADE


MTV Unplugged


My Life As Liz


Real World: Las Vegas


Ridiculousness




Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory


Silent Library


The Substitute


Teen Mom


Teen Mom 2


Teen Wolf


True Life


When I Was 17


World of Jenks



All Shows






specials


2011 Video Music Awards


2011 Movie Awards


2011 mtvU Woodie Awards


O Music Awards


Pretty Amazing Contest


The Truth Below




classics


Aeon Flux


Celebrity Deathmatch


Daria


The Hills


Laguna Beach


The Maxx


Pimp My Ride


Punk'd


TRL


Yo! MTV Raps






|

News





News Main


MTV News On Facebook


Video News & Interviews


MTV News Daily Newsletter




news categories


Breaking News


Music News


Movie News


Celebrity News


News Photos




newsroom blog


Latest Posts


Behind The Scenes


Television




rapfix hip-hop blog


Latest Posts


Hip-Hop News


RapFix Live


Interviews




Video Game News


Latest Posts


Xbox 360 News


Wii News


PS3 News






|

Movies





Movies Main


Red Carpet & On Set Photos


Movies Insider Newsletter




news & video


Interviews


Trailers


Movie News


After Hours With Josh Horowitz




movies blog


Latest Posts


Humor


Commentary


'Harry Potter' News




teen hollywood blog


Latest Posts


'Twilight' News


Eye Candy


Celebrity Couples


'Hunger Games' News




comic movies blog


Latest Posts


'Green Lantern' News


'Captain America' News


'Avengers' News










GO
WEB






















Search Posts














Top Categories



Band You Should Know

Behind The Scenes

Concerts

Deep Cuts

Interviews

Lists

Movie Awards

Movies

MTV News

Music

Newsroom Poll

Photos

Playlists

Politics

Poll

Sports

Television

Tweet Beat

Video

Video Games

VMAs

Wake-Up Video









MTV Newsroom Home








How Much Like The Nymph Is Lady Gaga?

Posted 15 hrs ago by Jocelyn Vena in Lady Gaga 



Over the course of her career, Lady Gaga has played many parts. And in her video for "You and I," she plays many more: a dude named Jo Calderone, a mermaid named Yuyi, a woodland nymph and, we're sure, somewhere in there she's even playing herself.
And it turns out that's true. You see, according to her Harper's Bazaar photographers/"You and I" fashion film directors Inez and Vinoodh, she is all those people and more. They're not actually characters, but different incarnations of Gaga's persona. So yes, under all the costumes and makeup, she is very much like the shoe-less, bare-faced nymph dancing in the Nebraskan cornfields featured in the clip.
"When you meet her she is so real and everything, any character that she does or any outfit that she puts on or any video she makes, it all comes from a real place inside," Inez revealed. "For her, this is one side of her."  Read more...
Tags Lady Gaga











 | Permalink












Mad, Bad And Dangerous To Know: Who Dares To Portray Keith Richards In 'Life'?

Posted 16 hrs ago by MTV News in Movies,  Music 




By Maura Gavaghan
Rock n' roll and Hollywood will soon collide as Keith Richard's autobiography "Life" is reportedly being turned into a feature film. Although Richards claims he isn't in a huge rush to get this project moving, fans and industry buffs can't help but speculate who will play the legendary guitarist of The Rolling Stones. While a few names have been dropped, there is no clear answer to who will take on the challenge of portraying the man once described by journalist Nick Kent as "mad, bad, and dangerous to know." 
The role will require great versatility, as the actor will have to portray Richards through the many tumultuous stages of his life, including years spent struggling with drug abuse. While there is plenty of room for opinion and debate over who could capture the notoriety of Keith Richards on the big screen, we thought of a few people who might have what it takes.  Read more...
Tags Johnny Depp, keith-richards, Movies, robert-pattinson











 | Permalink












Justin Bieber Wants To Marry By 25: Other Pop Stars Who Have Done The Same!

Posted 18 hrs ago by Jocelyn Vena in Justin Bieber 



 
Justin Bieber recently shared with the world one of his personal goals: to be married with kids by 25. That means in the next 8 or so years, the Biebs wants to settle down. Selena Gomez, you hear that? No? Well, we found the quote for you!
The Biebs spoke to Women's Wear Daily about it saying, "Well, by 25 or 26, I want to see myself, like, married or start looking for a family. I want to be a young dad. I want to be able to have done what I wanted to do — to be successful, to do a movie or whatever. But if the time is right, I definitely want to be married by 25.”
Of course, a lot of pop stars (especially ones who were pretty young when they got their start) marry kind of young. By the time they're 25, they've already lived a lot of life, so settling down probably feels like the next right move. And if Bieber feels like he's going to be the only pop star on the block who married by his mid-twenties, well we've found some others who also settled down early.  Read more...
Tags Justin Bieber











 | Permalink












You're Totally Into Lady Gaga's 'Bloody Mary'

Posted 20 hrs ago by John Mitchell in Lady Gaga,  Newsroom Poll 



Late last week, after much Twitter buzz, we asked if you Lady Gaga fans out there wanted her next single to be "Bloody Mary." The song started trending on Twitter last week when some tech-savvy Little Monsters pushed the hashtag #BloodyMary to convince Mother Monster that the song should be her next single – even though her latest Born this Way track, "You and I," only just cracked the top ten last week. There also seemed to be some consensus that the moody electro-pop song would work perfectly with a Halloween-themed video.
Well, you've spoken loud and clear. Check out the results of our Newsroom Poll after the jump and below, check out Born this Way producer Fernando Garibay talking about "Bloody Mary" and "Bad Kids." 
 Read more...
Tags Lady Gaga, Newsroom Poll











 | Permalink












Cyndi Lauper And Other National Anthem Disasters

Posted 21 hrs ago by John Mitchell in Music,  Sports 



 
Singers be warned: There is one song you are not allowed to mess up – "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Before this weekend's U.S. Open women's semi-final match between Serena Williams and Caroline Wozniacki in New York, Cyndi Lauper was tasked with singing the National Anthem and she didn't exactly do it justice. Wearing a short Statue of Liberty dress, Lauper started into the song following a moment of silence for the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and flubbed the lyrics. Instead of singing, "O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming," Lauper sang, "O’er the ramparts, we watched as our flag was still streaming."
And people are not pleased about it. Twitter lit up soon afterward with none-too-kind comments for the eccentric singer, but she's far from the first to come under fire for botching "The Star-Spangled Banner."  Read more...
Tags Cyndi-Lauper, national anthem











 | Permalink












Five Rappers-Turned TV Stars For Tyler The Creator To Look To For Inspiration

Posted 9/9/11 3:48 pm ET by MTV News in Television 



By Lauren Kearney
In the past, many rappers have taken a hiatus from their music careers and thought the next obvious step would be to conquer television. Whether it was finding love on a reality show, kicking ass and fighting bad guys in a crime drama or moving in with their auntie and uncle in Bel Air, this transition either went really well, really badly or so terribly it was hilariously good. 
In light of Tyler the Creator’s just-announced new show "Loiter Talk," which is coming to Cartoon Network’s Adult Swim in 2012, we have decided to take a look back at some of the rappers-turned-TV stars that have graced our television screens.  Read more...
Tags Television, Tyler the Creator











 | Permalink












Is Britney Spears Giving 'Criminal' A Face Lift For The Radio?

Posted 9/9/11 1:45 pm ET by Jocelyn Vena in Britney Spears 



Now that it's official that "Criminal" is Britney Spears' next Femme Fatale single, some of her most loyal fans have taken to the Internet to speculate that the song will get some sort of remix treatment for the radio.
As the track stands now on the album, it's a slow jam, the slowest on the album. The Max Martin-Shellback produced track is all about loving a bad boy, complete with a flute solo or two. While it's not really a ballad, it's the closest thing to a one on the dance floor friendly, dub step heavy album.
Britney fansite Breatheheavy.com has posted a clip of what is a reported radio version of the track, the closing song on the chart-topping album. The clip has since been taken off the Internet (maybe confirming that it is the real radio version?). It doesn't stray too far from the album cut, but the beat is a bit faster and the instrumentation is shuffled around a bit. The changes are small, but definitely make the song more radio-friendly.  Read more...
Tags britney spears











 | Permalink












Does Lady Gaga Have A New Dude In Her Life?

Posted 9/9/11 12:45 pm ET by MTV News in Lady Gaga 



 
From Hollywood Crush:
Lady Gaga knows how to pick hot leading men. I mean, she did cast Alexander Skarsgård in her "Paparazzi" video. So when we spotted "Vampire Diaries" actor Taylor Kinney in her "Yoü and I" clip, we figured it was Mother Monster just living out our dreams of making out with hot guys.
But now comes word that she's living out our dreams in real life. Sources tell People that Gaga and Taylor have taken their on-screen love off-screen and are "hooking up" in real life. 
The two met in July when Lady Gaga was shooting the video in Nebraska, and since then were spotted over Labor Day weekend in Mission Viejo, Calif., where they "were hanging out." 
Read on for the steamy details. Read more...
Tags Lady Gaga











 | Permalink












Should 'Bloody Mary' Be Lady Gaga's Next Single? Vote In Our Poll

Posted 9/9/11 10:34 am ET by John Mitchell in Lady Gaga,  Newsroom Poll 



Lady Gaga's latest single "You and I" is only in its fifth week on the Billboard charts and reached its highest chart position yet this week (No. 6), but Little Monsters have already launched a campaign for what song should be next.
Earlier this week, fans of the "Born This Way" superstar got #BloodyMary trending on Twitter in an effort to convince the singer that the popular track from her latest album would be the perfect fifth single – and that dark, moody the song would be a perfect fit for a Halloween-style video.
While discussing Born This Way in-depth with MTV News, producer Fernando Garibay revealed "Bloody Mary" is a "very personal" song to Gaga. The demo was originally developed and recorded by Gaga and co-producer DJ White Shadow in Los Angeles and later finished by Gaga, Shadow and Garibay, though it "stayed pretty much intact as the original demo. It's a beautiful song."
"['Bloody Mary' is] another super cool record. This is another one that started on a White Shadow track," he recalled. "I remember [Gaga] played this to me in Australia and we sat down and ... opened up the track and she started singing [the melody and lyrics] to it."
Do you think "Bloody Mary" should be Gaga's next single? Vote in our poll after the jump. Read more...
Tags Lady Gaga, Newsroom Poll











 | Permalink












Will Nick Jonas Release New Music Before He Hits Broadway?

Posted 9/8/11 4:45 pm ET by Jocelyn Vena in Broadway,  Jonas Brothers 



Sure Nick Jonas is prepping for a 2012 leading role in the hit Broadway musical "How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying," but does that mean we really won't see any new music from the Jo Bro any time soon? 
The answer, in short, is yes. With a bustling career on the stage and behind-the-scenes working with artists like Charice and Greyson Chance, right now, Nick confirms to MTV News, he's more focused on writing for others than writing for himself.
"You know, I don’t really have any plans right now to release any of those [songs] on my own, but what I think is really interesting about this year is my focus really has been on other people," he told us earlier this summer. "[I'll be] using all that I've learned over the years and hopefully creating some great music for other people."
 Read more...
Tags Broadway, Jonas Brothers











 | Permalink










 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 Next ›  











 









					Latest Video Posts				



 
Red Hot Chili Peppers Take Us Behind The Scenes Of 'Blood Sugar Sex Magik'

Posted 9/1/11

 
Joel McHale Expresses Love For 'The Jersey Shore' And 'Beavis And Butt-Head'

Posted 8/9/11

 
Happy Birthday Beck!

Posted 7/8/11



View More Video Posts »






					Latest Photo Posts				



 
Florence And The Machine Hint At New Music Inspired By 'Dark Metaphors'

Posted 5/20/11

 
Selena Gomez Channels 1920s For 'When The Sun Goes Down' Album Art

Posted 5/19/11

 
Spotted: Snooki Lays The Smackdown In Preparation For WrestleMania

Posted 3/31/11



View More Photo Posts »


Blog Roll

Act
Buzzworthy
Headbanger’s Ball
Hollywood Crush
MTV Clutch
MTV Hive
MTV Movies Blog
MTV Style
Multiplayer
Remote Control












MTV Logo: 




GO
WEB


MUSIC | SHOWS | NEWS | MOVIES | FULL EPISODES | TV SCHEDULE | MUSIC VIDEOS | MOVIE TRAILERS | BROWSE ARTISTS A-Z | RADIO | ONLINE GAMES | MOBILE | DOWNLOAD MTV DIRECT




SPONSORSAD: 




MTV Logo: 

© 2011 MTV Networks, © and ™ MTV Networks. All Rights Reserved.


Ad Choices logo



Ad Choices












