Genie In A Blog - powered by FeedBurner
&



Genie In A Blog

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Genie In A Blog delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



The Diner is Closed. Again.


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 02:00:03 +0000
It’s official. I weaned Zoe.
For months I’ve wondered when this day would come, but I wasn’t in any hurry. We’ve talked about it for months, and it was my recent 5 day trip to Iowa that sealed the deal.
I don’t have anything profound to say about it, and I know that those who haven’t or haven’t been able to nurse their babies may not understand how much I’ll miss that special time with her, how much I loved when she fell asleep on my lap.
Rachel and Claire pretty much weaned themselves at a little over a year old. Here’s a little piece I wrote for them back in April 2009.
The diner is closed.  Well, it actually closed a few weeks ago.  We did it very gradually, with our favorite customers slowly decreasing the amount of time spent in the diner.  Then they started coming fewer times during the day, maybe only hanging around long enough for a quick cup of coffee as opposed to a full meal.  From time to time they misbehaved, resulting in their getting kicked out of the diner. Eventually they were just coming in for the comfort of the booths, maybe grabbing a handful of peanuts before heading back out the door to their busy lives.
The diner’s history was bumpy and difficult in the beginning, but once the owner and the customers got to know each other, things began to run like a well oiled machine.  Then one day the customers just didn’t need to come back.  They found another regular spot with a much more extensive menu, and it seems much more fun to eat there.  At the new place you can even throw your food on the floor (a little — don’t go crazy or anything).
So eventually the diner had to let go its faithful staff.  It turned off the neon sign one last time and closed its doors for good with a resounding click of the lock.
It was a challenge, but I’m really going to miss running the diner.


Tweet
  




How to help Texas fire victims


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 02:00:05 +0000
I’m forgoing my usual Attitude of Gratitude post this weekend for something very important.
Because I’m grateful that I still have a home, that I live in an area unaffected by the horrendous fires that have displaced so many in my beloved town and surrounding areas.
Wildfires have burned in Leander, Cedar Park, Steiner Ranch, and most notably Bastrop County, where the out of control fires have consumed over 34,000 acres and destroyed over 1300 homes (nbcdfw.com). As of today, September 9, 2011, the fire remains only 30% contained.
Communities have been evacuated. Families have lost everything. People are in need.
Red = active fires, yellow = active carry over fires. This doesn't even show the fires that are 90% or more contained.

How can I help?
Fox 7 Food Drive — Now through Sept 25, bring any nonperishable food items, diapers, and formula to any Sonic location.
Red Cross of Central Texas — Visit their website, or call 512-929-1250 or 512-928-4271. You can also text REDCROSS to 90999 to make a $10 donation. The Red Cross is also in need of volunteers.
KVUE & Randall’s are teaming up for the Neighbors in Need Wildfire Relief Drive, and also with a benefit at the Nutty Brown Cafe on Saturday.
Donate directly to the Texas Wildfire Relief Fund.
 
The Oasis on Lake Travis is collecting donations for the Austin/Bastrop fire victims, including work gloves, toiletries, non perishable food items, water, clothing, trash bags, and flashlights with batteries.
For more information on how to help or to find more donation drop off points, visit KVUE, KEYE, KXAN, and FOX.
Even Ellen is contributing to the cause and helping spread the word about wildfires in Texas.
 
And if that’s not enough, my wonderful local blogging friends have all linked up for the cause. Visit our linkup at Wonder, Friend to find out how Texas bloggers are banding together to spread the word and help those in need.
This is a terrible event raging in our state right now, and Texans need your help to get back on its feet.
Make a donation. Collect some clothing and food items. Donate a gift card.
Spread the word.
Texas needs you.

Tweet
  




Wedded Bliss?


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 02:00:42 +0000
Can anyone tell me if my house is still standing? Or have the children gone all Lord of the Flies on my husband?
Yes, I’m still gone! I’m having a great time! I may never come back!
Wait, it gets wicked cold up here in Iowa in the winters. I’m not made for that. Ok, I’ll come back soon.
But while I’m still gone and having a blast with all these amazing women up here, I have another amazing women RIGHT HERE on this blog to keep you company.
She’s my bloggy BFF and Canadian sister wife. And like any good sister wife, she’s down here helping Christian with the kids and babysitting my blog while I’m gone. Ok, maybe just the blog stuff.
Please give a warm welcome to the incredible Leighann of Multitasking Mumma! She’s getting married next year and is knee deep in wedding fantasies, plans, and the inevitable pressure that comes with it all. #sigh

__________________________


We are in the thick of planning our wedding and I am certain we’ve gotten a great head start! It’s more than a year away you guys!!
Brian on the other hand is not convinced. He thinks I have let my woman brain be swayed by “Say Yes to the Dress” and “Big Bliss” and I should have given myself three years or more to pull off what I am dreaming.
He says I’m a trickster.
That I promised him a back yard pig roast with a small gathering of friends and this is turning into glitz and spotlights.
My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding!
WHAT?
Okay it’s true. I promised pigs, sand, and t-shirts.
I told him there would only be a few people, a huge keg, and patio lanterns.
A little ditty about Brian and LEEEIIIGGHHANNN.
But then I remembered… I’m a girl and I want all the attention on me in my big white dress, my pulled back hair, my father walking me down the aisle, my child out of wedlock crying from my mother-in-laws lap, you know.. the dream?!
I want to starve myself for months before the big day in an attempt to fit into the gown of my dreams and do sit ups under my desk on my lunch break just so I can look back on my wedding photos with a smile on my face.
I want the excitement of planning.
The anxieties, frustrations, disappointments, and thrills.
The cake samples, invitation choices, table clothes and overlays, and glue stuck all over my hands from making centre pieces.
I want to carefully pick out song choices for the DJ and forbid any Taylor Swift music be played.
Most of all?
I want to fantasize about walking up the aisle towards the man I chose to spend the rest of my life with, slipping my hand into his, and beginning our journey into the next chapter together.




See how lovely she is? What a talent for mixing the hilarious with the warm fuzzies. And good call on the Taylor Swift banning.
Now go! Run! Check out Multitasking Mumma in her own territory and tell her the Genie sent you! I’ll be back on Wednesday!


Tweet
  




Leaving


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 11:00:29 +0000
Happy Labor Day weekend everyone!
This is a monumental weekend. Big things are happening.
First of all, today I’m hanging out at This Blogger Makes Fun of Stuff, talking about my very favorite hotel — the only one at which we can enjoyably stay with our three younguns. Go check it out and find out where you need to be staying!

 
I also put a post up at BizChickBlogs this month about why we often have a hard time saying “no.” Take a gander and see if you can relate.
In other big news, I’m leaving. On a jet plane. I DO, however, know when I’ll be back again. But the best part is that I’m going to be on that plane BY MYSELF, as in no kids {at least none that belong to me} and no husband {I’ll miss you honey!}.
I’m headed up to the great rural state of Iowa for a once in a lifetime opportunity to spend the holiday weekend with ALL of the women on Christian’s mom’s side of the family. There will be 16 of us in all taking over his aunt’s farmhouse. I couldn’t be more thrilled to not only get away for a few days, because I SO need this, but to spend those days with some amazing women. Some of them I’ll be meeting for the first time, although we already feel like we know each other, thanks to the magic of Facebook.
But not to worry while I’m gone! I’ll be leaving you in very capable hands, and I’ll be back before you know it.
And please pray for my husband. Four days being the kids’ only caregiver with no relief may just drive him over the edge. Even I’ve never done that before.
____________________________________
Today’s Juice in the City deal for Austin is half off an on location photo session and package with J Shumway Photography! You get a 1 hour photo shoot, a CD with ALL digital images from your session (that right there is a fantastic opportunity — most photographers don’t give all the photos on CD!), and 25% off print orders. This is the perfect opportunity to book those holiday card family photos! Go HERE to get the deal, or check out the widget in my sidebar for a deal in your area!
 
*I was compensated by Juice in the City for sharing this deal with you. All words and opinions are mine.
Tweet
  




iPhone Photo Phun – End of Hell, I mean summer


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 02:00:28 +0000
Welcome to iPhone Photo Phun, brought to you by the amazing Liz and KLZ! These ladies started this weekly meme to give us a place to share those fun photos that we take at the spur of the moment with our phones. I’m sorry to say that I probably take more photos with my phone than I do my DSLR.
Oh, and my version is actually NiPPP — “Not an iPhone Photo Phun.” But they’re still letting me join in. Yay for acceptance!

School is already in session, and we’re about to start Mother’s Day Out with our backpacks, lunch bags, our fears, and our predictions.
Unfortunately the “end of summer” doesn’t really mean much. It’s not going to cool off for good around here until well into October.
I mean, it’s seriously hot this year. Ridiculously hot, with triple digit temps for over 70 days straight now.
This was not taken with my phone. It's just an illustration to show you stupid the weather is here. Oh, and remind me to get my jacket out for Thursday.
To celebrate the “end of the inferno” and the beginning of school, let’s take a look at what we’ve been doing to cool down this summer.
Double the ice cream
Double the mud (from the sprinkler, 'cause there sure as hell hasn't been any rain around these parts).
 
Sometimes we lounged in the pool
 
Sometimes the only way to cool off was to lay on the nice cool floor at the pediatrician's office. Never mind that we didn't even have an appointment. She has nice floors.
 
Sometimes we just had to let it all hang out.
It’s been fun, but I am definitely looking forward to getting beck into the double digits.
 
How have YOU been staying cool (and sane) this summer?
 
Tweet
  




Pee in your pants, but please eat your carrots.


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 03:26:57 +0000
This Thursday, 9/1 is the day — the day when I ship my girls off to Mother’s Day Out for the first time ever.
They’re so excited!
I’m SO EXCITED!
We talk about going to school every single day. I know they’ll do great, and it’ll be good for all of us.
I even kinda know what to expect, to a degree.
But I still have some fears.
Rachel will pee her pants.
This is less of a fear than it is a fact.
I know. Once kids are potty trained accidents are inevitable for months to come, if not years. But this girl is really giving me a run for my money when it comes to using the actual toilet, and they only have normal sized ones to use there. I relented to bribing them with an M&M, which worked swimmingly on Claire, but Rachel’s not convinced that the toilet’s not going to eat her.
So unless we can stash a little Ikea potty in the bathroom, I’m packing 10 extra pairs of underwear and giving her teacher a hefty warning.
And Claire? Just be prepared to find her randomly without underwear at some point in the day.
They won’t eat their meal.
They’re decent lunch eaters here at home…strapped into booster seats. I fear that the excitement of being in a cool new place will make eating just seem so last week {you know, last week, when we were stuck at home with Mom every day?}. Plus, you know I’m going to try and fool their teachers into thinking that they eat super healthy, lest she find out they survive on a diet of string cheese, pretzels, and grapes. But the joke’ll be on me when they open up their lunch bags and make it clear that carrots equal death and disgust in stick form. And it’ll all come home untouched.
This will surely cause major meltdowns and demands of the fishy variety when they are released back into my care.
They won’t play nice.
Rachel and Claire are best friends. And worst enemies. But they’re used to each other’s quirks and annoyances. I’m not sure how they’ll react to other kids being thrown in the mix who might take their toys or exhibit other behaviors that their not used to.
To be fair, they’re not total hermits. They’ve grown up going to playdates and interacting with other kids their age. And many a mom and even the preschool director has assured me that kids just act differently when they’re at “school.” But still. No one wants to be the mom of the kid who yanked out a chunk of little Susie’s hair because she knocked over her block tower.
Oh, geez, who am I kidding — my kids are totally going to be the tower knocker overs.
They won’t interact.
I don’t worry much about them missing me or pouting that I’ve left them. I don’t worry that they’ll be lonely or without friends. They always have each other. I DO worry that they will look to each other so much that they’ll inadvertently avoid making other friends. Not terribly troubling now in twice a week Mother’s Day Out, but turning inward and alienating others is definitely something to consider in the coming school years.
They won’t be seen as individuals.
They’ll be known only as “Rachel&Claire,” or just “The Twins.”
Twins, especially identicals, are always in danger of being lumped into a unit. Even I often refer to them as R&C on this blog, with not even a space to separate them. I’m often plagued with {understandable} questions like “Which one is this?” and I know they’ll grow up always being asked “Are you Rachel or Claire?”
When you have two kids that are the same age, teachers, friends, and relatives have to make a distinct effort to get to know them as individuals. And that can be even harder when they look exactly alike.
 
I’m excited about this new adventure for my girls, and I know my fears will be put to rest before too long.
But my biggest fear? They’re growing up. This is only step one in the long road of them getting older, bigger, more mature. And I love it and hate it at the same time.
 ________________________________
Today’s Juice in the City deal for Austin is $10 for $20 worth of delicious southern food at Threadgill’s! If you haven’t been to Threadgill’s before, you are definitely missing out, and this is a great opportunity to try it. Go here to get the deal, or visit the widget on my sidebar to see what deal is being offered in your area!
*I was compensated by Juice in the City to share this deal with you. Links are affiliate links. All words and opinions are my own.
Tweet
  




An Attitude of Gratitude #16


Posted: Sun, 28 Aug 2011 02:00:21 +0000
Welcome to Attitude of Gratitude! If you’re not familiar with my weekly post, find out why I started it!
This week definitely had it’s ups and downs. Monday I opened up my email to see that my Paypal account had been hacked and some jerk named Dimitri had set up an automatic payment from me to him. Props on the hacking, but that’s not nice!
Plus, I don’t keep any money in that account anyway, so joke’s on you, fool!
And then the day ended with a call to Poison Control when I realized that instead of her antibiotics for her ear infection, C had given Rachel a dose of some random goo from way back in April. {This is why it’s good to clean out the ENTIRE fridge, not just the main shelves.} No biggie, she’s fine.
But we definitely had some wins this week, and I’ve found myself grateful for a lot:
Bookstores — whether they’re for buying books, reading books, or unshelving books, they’re a whole lotta fun.
Zoe even made a little boyfriend at the bookstore. He was playing hide and seek among the shelves with his dad, and Zoe was just playing YOU CAN’T CATCH ME YOU CRAZY LADY!!! with me. But she kept coming across little boy, and every time she did, he would try to beckon her over to hide with him. So. Cute.
Painting little girl nails.
Excitement over M&Ms (duh — they’re delicious).
Seeing a light at the end of the tunnel as both girls were {almost} complete angels on a trip to Target.
Watching Zoe so eager to join her sisters in play time, doing what they’re doing.
Christian being extra calm, patient, and loving with the kids when he knows I’m at the end of my rope.
Yogurt covered pretzels.
Zoe signing “please” and “more.”
Claire and Rachel snuggling together in Rachel’s bed after nap time.
 

 
Finally, this week was so full of super funny quotes, I just had to share:
Me: “Okay, Rachel, let’s wipe you’re butt.”
Rachel: “Good idea, Mommy.”
Claire: “Dad…I’m so sorry I spilled….”
Claire: “We hafta go play dis.”
Christian: “No, I don’t want to play that. I want to play with this.”
Claire: “Dad. We hafta go play this.” {I totally imagined her all serious, with her hand on his shoulder.}
Rachel: I hafta go pee pee in the potty and then go to school!” {The are SO EXCITED about starting “school,” so what better potty training incentive?}
Claire: “Mom…I’m so sorry I got mad at you.”
So maybe the funny was in the context, and since you weren’t here for that, well then it’s probably not as funny to you! But it seems like our little three year olds are turning into actual little people, like with manners and stuff.
 
What about you? What are you grateful for? Write a post or make a list and link up! Linky’s open until Saturday!
 



Tweet
  




Rule 15: Keep Your Eyes on the Prize


Posted: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 03:49:54 +0000






This is part of an ongoing series chronicling my attempts to regain a bit of my sense of self, and my sanity, by implementing Elizabeth Lyons’ 32 Rules that Sustain a (Mostly) Balanced Mom. Subscribe to my RSS feed to follow my experiment, and check out the rest of the posts in the series!


























—————-
While out shopping one day, I passed by a mom pushing a double stroller, two car seats snapped into the frame.






 
This always grabs my attention. Twin moms almost always accost other twin moms. We know how irritating it is to get stopped by just about every person who sees that you have more than one infant, but once we let on that we’re twin moms too, it’s like meeting an old family member –someone who knows your trials, triumphs, and debilitating sleep deprivation.
I smiled and asked her how old they were, and gestured over to my three year old twins behind me with their dad, in an “I know what you’re going through” fashion.
“I’ve heard it gets easier,” she said, pushing the stroller back and forth, desperate for me to agree with her.
“Well…”  I didn’t want to break her spirit, but I had to tell her the truth: “…it gets different.”
 
If there has been anything that we’ve said over and over again since Rachel and Claire were born, it’s “It’ll get easier,” or “It won’t always be this hard.”
Going out with three young kids means constant wrangling. Buckling three kids into car seats. Handing out snacks and drinks times three. Unloading three kids out of car seats. Trying to get everyone from the parking lot to the destination without a) getting hit by a car, b) melting in the 105 degree heat, or c) getting their arms pulled out of their sockets because COME ON ALREADY! Walk faster, PLEASE!
But lately I see that light at the end of the tunnel. Sometimes the light taunts me with the “it’s getting better” song right before it slams the door in my face and I’m left in a sweaty mess, dragging whiny three year olds out to the car or chasing the fastest one year old you’ve ever see through Barnes & Noble before she can unshelve ALL of the Twilight books.
But still, sometimes I do see that light.
It started when they learned to climb into the car and into their seats on their own. Even into their booster seats at the dinner table. All I have to do is buckle them, and that alone is saving my back tons of heavy lifting.
They can fetch wipes if I find myself without any while Zoe’s poopy butt hovers dangerously above the carpet. If they’re listening. It’s kinda touch and go on that one.
They let the dog in. Heck, they’ve even locked me outside before and knew well enough to let me back in when I told them to. So nice of them, right?
And last Wednesday as we perused our normal boredom buster with it’s irresistible dollar section and monstrous red carts, they begged to walk on their own. Actually, it was more of a public service announcement: “I have to get out and walk!” And I let them.
My husband thinks I’m crazy when I say I want to take them somewhere by myself. He doesn’t get the monotony of staying home with them day after day in this ridiculous summer heat. That it’s good for ALL of us to get out.
Sometimes I’m met with wins, sometimes I leave with total fails. But I have to get through the failures to get to the successes.
And I won’t experience even the smallest success if I don’t ever try.
Sure, it wasn’t long before Claire took off running through the Merona dresses and Liz Lange maternity swimwear, rounding a corner and booking it to the frozen pizzas while I was still trying to get through home decor, stopping only to pick up the coloring book that Zoe so thoughtfully threw overboard and maybe to examine a piece of wall art that would look perfect in my living room. But a quick plop back into the cart, a stern talking to, and lots of whining later, she was ready to try again.
And I let her.
And when we made it safely to the toy aisles and they found some plastic dinosaurs to march around with? I heard, “Okay dinosaur…Stay. With. Mommy.”
And they did.
Someday it won’t be this hard. And that someday may be closer than I think.
 
Have you reached out for a light a the end of a proverbial tunnel? What kind of prize are you keeping YOUR eye on?
 





Purchase your own autographed copy of You CANNOT Be Serious! You can also follow Elizabeth Lyons on Twitter: @elizabethlyons







Tweet
  




Ear Candy


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 02:00:08 +0000
When I was a young lass at the tender age of 15, I lived and breathed music. I would scour the pages of the entertainment that came in the Sunday edition of the Dallas morning news, clipping out any articles or photos of my favorite bands. My friends and I annually attended concerts like Edgefest and Steve Miller, with other fun ones in between.
My taste in music has evolved quite a bit over the years, but I’ve always been an alternative girl, moving onto more indie and singer/songwriter stuff as of late. And I love to enlighten people on my awesome music choices.
So I decided that you need some enlightening. Check out some ear candy that I can’t get enough of these days.Keep in mind that I don’t listen to a lot of commercial radio, and I knew more about Lady Gaga from Glee than I do from real life.
Here’s what I can’t get enough of these days:
Sarah Jaffe — Clementine Sarah Jaffe — Clementine
 
Obadiah Parker — Hey Ya (yes, a cover of the Outkast song, and it’s amazing) Obadiah Parker — Hey Ya
 
The Decemberists — Rox in the Box  The Decemberists — Rox In the Box
Black Joe Lewis and the Honeybears — Boogie (a favorite of the 3 year old dance party crowd) Black Joe Lewis & the Honeybears — Boogie
Yeasayer — O.N.E.  Yeasayer — O.N.E.
Those Darlins — Wild One Those Darlins — Wild One
Edward Sharpe & the Magnificent Zeros — Home Edward Sharpe & the Magnificent Zeros — Home
Pearl Jam — Just Breathe Pearl Jam — Just Breathe
 
Do you have a favorite song of the moment?
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tweet
  




Art and writing


Posted: Mon, 22 Aug 2011 02:00:22 +0000
Almost every time my mom visits me, she looks at me thoughtfully and asks, “Do you ever miss making art?”
My answer is usually a quick, “Nope. I really don’t.”
That’s not entirely true. I miss going out and taking photographs of old buildings I wanted to replicate, working hard on a drawing that I loved. The acrid smell of oil pants and turpentine filling my nostrils and sticking to my clothes. The endless potential in a fresh piece of paper or a newly stretched canvas. But that was on a good day.
I don’t miss the immense preparation I always needed to do before starting a project, a trait that hindered and often halted my production before it even began.
I don’t miss the anxiety that I would feel, sitting bored at my 9-5 job, wishing I could be at home fostering my creativity, only to flop on the couch at the end of a long work day.
I don’t miss the guilt that I should be in my studio instead of in front of the TV.
I don’t miss the pressure to produce something magnificent, something gallery worthy.
I certainly don’t miss the intimidation, the uncertainty, and the self doubt.
 
When my desire to make it as an artist was at an all time high, I was lucky enough to participate in a few shows. Granted two of those shows were at a gallery owned by a friend of mine, but no matter. So much of getting your foot in the door in any industry is who you know.
At my first show, I sold my first piece. I squeezed by a short, squat woman in the crowded gallery, looking for my friends. She glanced at my nametag and exclaimed, “Oh, Leigh Ann! I just bought one of your pieces!” It was a 12 in x 12 in charcoal drawing on panel of a warehouse loading dock. It was one of my favorite pieces ever.
Loading Dock
I was elated, walking on air for the rest of the night. If it were this easy, maybe I could really do this!
But as every freelancer knows, securing one job, one sale, one show doesn’t mean that others will automatically follow suit.
My interest ebbed and flowed. If I wanted to be a working artist, I needed to live, eat, and breathe it in the hours I wasn’t at my “real” job. It was a lot to take on. If I described myself as an artist, people asked me, “Oh, can I see your work?” I shied away. I didn’t have anything to show them.
I had wonderful, creative, motivating people around me who made me want to work as hard as they did. But I didn’t have it in me.
I made a lot of excuses.
I convinced myself that I didn’t have their talent, their gumption, and their drive.
What I didn’t have was their confidence.
 
I’ve always written. Although it was something I did in journals, letters to friends, short stories as a kid, writing always took a distant back seat to art. I never considered it as a degree choice or potential career. Fast forward a few years, and here I sit, pouring my thoughts out onto my keyboard for you to read. At least I hope you’re reading. Hello? Is this thing on???
In writing, I am confident. I am sure of myself. I want you to read my work. I want to move you, whether you are moved to laugh, to cry, or it’s your eyes just continuing to move down the page. I don’t always need to do immense preparation before starting a piece, although it often helps.
I feel no guilt. Intimidation and self doubt are diminishing as I learn to stop comparing myself to other bloggers and instead try to learn from them.
 
I was a good artist. I AM a good artist. I’m just not really an artist.
I am a writer.
 
What about you? Have you let inhibitions hold you back? Have you discovered something that you feel you are meant to do?
___________
Today’s Juice in the City Deal for Monday, 8/22/11, is $10 for $20 worth of burgers and more at Phil’s Ice House. If you’re not familiar with Phil’s, it’s run by the same people behind another Austin favorite, Amy’s Ice Cream. You do NOT want to miss this one. Plus, it’s valid at both locations! Click HERE to get the deal, or check out the widget on my sidebar for a deal in your area.
*I was compensated by Juice in the City to share this deal with you. Links are affiliate links. All words and opinions are my own.
Tweet
  






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


