Tax Forms, Tax Questions, IRS News : IRS Tax Support


IRS Tax Support : Tax Forms, Tax Questions, IRS News
IRS Tax Resources, Business News, & Personal Finance Information




Change of Address
Copy Of Tax Return
Electronic Filing PIN Request
Federal Tax Form 1040
Federal Tax Form W-4
Free Tax Preparation
IRS E-file
IRS Telephone Numbers
Refund Status
Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
Small Business Tax Info
Tax Forms & Publications
Tax-Deductible Charitable Contributions
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2008
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2009
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2010
 




Contact






Subscribe








Meta

Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org


 


 Recent Posts

Higher Education Tax Benefits 
Hurricane Irene Victims Get Tax Relief 
Small Business Owners Take Notice Of The Small Business Health Care Tax Credit 
Personal Finance – Importance of Financial Planning to Avoid Debts 
IRS Announces New Effort to Help Struggling Taxpayers Get a Fresh Start; Major Changes Made to Lien Process 
CPA From Springfield Steals More Than $400,00 From Families 
26-year-old Is Arrested on Charges of Theft By Conversion After Allegedly Withdrawing More Than $43,000 From A Local ATM 
Wow…Lots of Big Stars Are in Big Trouble With the Tax Man Tsk Tsk Tsk 
ALABAMA COUPLE CHARGED WITH TAX EVASION AND CONSPIRACY 
The IRS Has $1.1 Billion for People Who Have Not Filed a 2007 Income Tax Return 
IRS Seeks New Issues for the Industry Issue Resolution Program 
Report: IRS Files $63G Tax Lien Against Naomi Campbell 
Ground Zero Mosque Builder Owes Back Taxes to the IRS 
Group Is Accused on Tax Exemption 
The $31 Billion Revenue Fantasy 




Paula Wombolt: Congratulations, your article was reprinted to Harvard Unive...
admin: Here's the link for that form: http://www.irstaxsupport.com/...
admin: You can find the form here: http://www.irstaxsupport.com/tax...
admin: The link for the form 1040X is available. Instructions are i...
admin: Sure. Sign up an account and send your username to urbanapex...
admin: Try this link:
https://sa2.www4.irs.gov/irfof/lang/en/irfofg...
admin: Visit this link and enter your personal information.
https:...
Turner Stancil: I made a mistake on the secondary tax filler's social securi...
Corrie Kapadia: Please let me know if you're looking for a article writer fo...

 

 MSN Money Investing Ideas
An error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.
 SmartMoney.com: Deal of the Day
A Better Way to Buy WineNow at Your Local Bank: Hurricane SpecialsThe New Fall Shopping GuideLuxury (Now) Within Reach4 Fast Ways to Save Money Now
 SmartMoney.com: Screens
For 4% Yields and Safety, See Defense Stocks3 Stocks Under $15Dividends Should Jump. These 3 Just DidDitch the IPOs; Try These Old-School Stocks Instead5 Stocks For Buying Into the Correction3 Stocks Prospering From Housing. Really3 Stocks Turning Research Into Returns3 Companies Slashing Their DebtLook Beyond Company Earnings for Safe Bets3 Stocks With Safe 3% Yields
  Amazon.com Widgets

 Urban Music 2000 – New Music Releases, Entertainment News & Gossip
Made U Look: Jay-Z And Beyoncé Attend U.S. Open, Will Smith And Marc Anthony Hang In MiamiTupac Shakur Remembered 15 Years LaterNever Let You Go: Women That Stuck With Dirty Dogs Even Though They Knew About The Cheating…Would You?Never Let You Go: Women That Stuck With Dirty Dogs Even Though They Knew About The Cheating…Would You?Seen On The Scene: Rosa Acosta Spent Two Days In Houston With… Game???Seen On The Scene: Rosa Acosta Spent Two Days In Houston With… Game???Were You Watching: The Best Lines From “True Blood” Season 4 FinaleWere You Watching: The Best Lines From “True Blood” Season 4 FinaleHe Wants You To Pay The Bill… What Do You Say?He Wants You To Pay The Bill… What Do You Say?
 Urban Music 2000 Music Forum
Basketball Wives and Love & Hip Hop Stars Hit Fashion WeekT.I. Lawyers Up & Fights Feds Over Return to PrisonExclusive: Amber Rose and Wiz Khalifa Not Married, Says SourcePosted: Is Demi Lovato Ready To Go On Tour?Das Racist Premieres Wacky 'Michael Jackson' Video: WatchGo JHud, It's Your Birthday!St. Vincent Records Track for 'Boardwalk Empire': ExclusiveMitch Winehouse: Amy Died of a SeizureBritney Spears Announces Second 'B In The Mix' Remix AlbumNYFW: Gwen Stefani's Retro Line, Victoria Beckham Hit the Runway
 




 Bandana Fever Custom Nike Shoes
Video: Lil Wayne – How To LoveVideo: DJ Khaled – I’m On OneBandana Fever Custom Bandana Dickies Capri PantsBandana Fever Custom Bandana Dickies ShirtsCustom Bandana Dickies Shorts White X Black BandanaBandana Fever Custom Bandana Dickies ShortsARTWalk DTLA 9.8.11Bandana Fever Custom Bandana Dickies Pants20 Uses For A Bandana40 GLOCC FEAT. E-40, SNOOP DOGG, TOO SHORT & XZIBIT – “WELCOME TO CALIFORNIA” – DJ PACK‏
 


 


Save money wherever you shopSave money wherever you shopSave money wherever you shopSave money wherever you shopSave money wherever you shop
 


Recently Tweeted
IRS Raises Fee for Applications for Tax-Exempt StatusObamacare Would Let Government Bureaucrats Snoop Through Tax ReturnsCopy Of Tax ReturnBack to School: How To Pay For College As An AdultManufacturers' Energy Efficient Appliance Credit
 

 Join the Widgetbox Network Finance & Investing Channel at Widgetbox.comGet the Widgetbox Blog Network: Finance & Investing widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox!

 



Categories



1st Time Homebuyers

401K

AGI

Alternative Minimum Tax

Amended Return

AMT

Annuities

Audits

Automobiles

Back Taxes

Bankruptcy

Banks

Bonds

Business Deductions

Business Expenses

Business Mileage

Business Taxes

Capital Gains

Celebrity

Chapter 11 Bankruptcy

Charitable Deductions

Charitable Donations

Child Support

Consumerism

Copies Of Tax Return

Corporate Taxes

Cost Basis

CPAs

Credit

Credit Cards

Credit Crisis

Credit Markets

Credit Unions

Debt

Deductions

Department Of Justice

Department Of Revenue

Dependent Credits

Dependent Students

Disability Benefits

Double Taxation

E Filing

Earned Income Exclusion

Earned Income Tax Credit

Economic Recovery Payment

Education

Employment

Energy Efficiency

Energy Tax Credit

Entrepreneurship

Equity Line Of Credit

Estate Planning

Estate Tax

Excise Tax

Expenses

Fannie Mae

Fantastic Freebbies

FBAR Form

FDIC

Federal Health Programs

Federal Lawsuits

Federal Reserve

Federal Taxes

FHA

FICA

Flexible Spending Accounts

Foreclosures

Foreign Taxes

Form 1023

Form 1040

Form 1040a

Form 1040es

Form 1040ez

Form 1040x

Form 1098

Form 1099

Form 1116

Form 2106

Form 2120

Form 4506 T

Form 4868

Form 5405

Form 5695

Form 6251

Form 8332

Form 8379

Form 8822

Form 8829

Form 8850

Form 8888

Form 9465

Form 990

Fraud

Freddie Mac

GDP

Gifts

Goals

Grants

Gross Income

Gurus

Head Of Household

Health & Fitness

Health Care

Health Care Bill

Health Insurance

Home Equity

Home Improvements

Homebuyer Tax Credit

Hope Credit

HUD

Income Interest

Income Tax Withholding

Income Taxes

Independent Contractor

Individual Income Tax

Inheritance Tax

InjuredSpouse

Installment Agreements

Insurance

Insurance Trusts

Interest Dividends

Interest Expenses

Interest Income

Interest Rates

Investing

IRA

IRS

Kiddie Tax

Law Attorneys

Life Insurance

Lifetime Learning Credit

Living Trusts

Loans

Lottery Winnings

Married Couples

Medical Expenses

Medicare Tax

Military

Money

Mortgage Insurance

Mortgage Interest

Mortgage Lending

Mortgage Rates

Mortgage Relief

Mortgage Revenue Bonds

Mortgages

Municipal Bonds

Mutual Funds

Offshore Accounts

Payroll

Pension Benefits

Personal Exemptions

Personal Finance

Politics

Product Update

Progressive Tax

Property Taxes

Publication 17

Publication 3

Publication 463

Publication 501

Publication 503

Publication 523

Publication 529

Real Estate

Receipts

Retirement Plans

Retirement Savings

Roth Ira

Sales Tax

Savings

Schedule A

Schedule M

SEC

Section 179

Self Employment

Senate Finance Committee

Small Businesses

Social Security

Software

Standard Deductions

State Taxes

Stimulus Plans

Stocks

Student Loans

Swiss Accounts

Tax Administration

Tax Advice

Tax Amnesty

Tax Attorneys

Tax Audit

Tax Basis

Tax Benefits

Tax Bills

Tax Brackets

Tax Breaks

Tax Burden

Tax Collectors

Tax Compliance

Tax Credits

Tax Crimes

Tax Debt

Tax Deductions

Tax Evasion

Tax Exemptions

Tax Filing

Tax Forms

Tax Fraud

Tax Gains

Tax Gap

Tax Havens

Tax Help

Tax Incentives

Tax Increases

Tax Law

Tax Liens

Tax Loopholes

Tax Losses

Tax Payments

Tax Penalties

Tax Planning

Tax Preparation

Tax Preparation Assistance

Tax Preparers

Tax Provisions

Tax Rates

Tax Rebates

Tax Records

Tax Reform

Tax Refund Loans

Tax Refunds

Tax Relief

Tax Returns

Tax Scams

Tax Shelters

Tax Tables

Tax Tips

Taxable Gifts

Taxable Income

Taxes

Taxpayers

Tips

Travel

Travel Expenses

Treasury Bills

Trusts

Uncategorized

Unearned Income

Unemployment Benefits

Unpaid Taxes

US Economy

US Treasury

Video

W2

Wage Earners

Withholding Tax



US Treasury
The IRS Has $1.1 Billion for People Who Have Not Filed a 2007 Income Tax ReturnIf you haven’t filed your 20007 return, you may want to:
Refunds totaling more than $1.1 billion may be waiting for nearly  1.1 million people who did not file a federal income tax return for  2007, the Internal Revenue Service announced today. However, to collect  the money, a return for 2007 must be [...]


Share and Enjoy:























IRS Seeks Volunteers for Taxpayer Advocacy PanelThe Internal Revenue Service seeks civic-minded volunteers to serve  on the Taxpayer Advocacy Panel (TAP), a federal advisory committee that  listens to taxpayers, identifies key issues and makes recommendations  for improving IRS service.
“The feedback and suggestions that the TAP provides us from the  taxpayer’s point of view are important to sound [...]


Share and Enjoy:























UBS says IRS has 20 Swiss banks in its sightsEmbattled UBS AG has warned that Switzerland’s financial industry is  at risk unless lawmakers approve a tax treaty with the U.S., and that  other Swiss banks may be next to face pressure from American regulators.
In  a letter to parliamentarians, the banking company said the U.S.  Internal Revenue Service has collected information [...]


Share and Enjoy:























IRS Announces Qualified Disaster Treatment for ChileWashington  The Internal Revenue Service today issued guidance designating the earthquake that occurred in Chile in February 2010 as a  qualified disaster for federal tax purposes. The guidance allows  individuals who receive qualified disaster relief payments from any  person to exclude those payments from income on their tax returns. Also,  [...]


Share and Enjoy:























IRS Wins 48-Month Suspension of a Lawyer for Failing to File His Own Tax Return and Late Filing Massachusetts Tax Attorney Kevin Kilduff was barred from practicing  before the Internal Revenue Service for 48 months for failing to file  one federal tax return and for filing another five returns late.
“Professionals who demonstrate a lack of respect for our tax system  by failing to meet their own tax filing obligations should [...]


Share and Enjoy:























Sterling doctor pleads guilty in Swiss account investigationA Sterling physician has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making a false statement in connection with a Justice Department investigation into a hidden Swiss bank account.
Andrew B. Silva faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine. He is free on bail, pending sentencing May 7.
The Justice Department accuses Silva of [...]


Share and Enjoy:























IRS Approves Second Round of Issuance by Indian Tribal Governments of Economic Development BondsThe U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service today announced the allocation of a second round of authority to Indian tribal governments to issue Tribal Economic Development Bonds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA).
The IRS awarded 76 tribal governments a combined $1.005 billion of bond issuance authority, also [...]


Share and Enjoy:























IRS Marks EITC Awareness Day; Highlights Expanded Tax CreditAn expanded Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) means larger families will qualify for a larger credit, offering greater relief for people who struggled through difficult financial times last year, the Internal Revenue Service said today.
The IRS and the Treasury Department marked EITC Awareness Day as their partners nationwide worked to highlight the availability of this [...]


Share and Enjoy:























IRS Workers With ConvictionsTax agency deals with rogue employees engaging in everything from celebrity snooping to extortion.
Going Rogue: 																		12 From The IRS Accused Of Crimes
This is the time of year–the run-up to the tax-filing deadline on April 15–in which the Internal Revenue Service and federal prosecutors churn out press release after press release touting [...]


Share and Enjoy:























Reporting Foreign Bank and Financial AccountsReport of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBAR)
If you own or have authority over a foreign financial account, including a bank account, brokerage account, mutual fund or other type of financial account, you may be required to report the account yearly to the Department of the Treasury. Under the Bank Secrecy Act, each United States [...]


Share and Enjoy:
























Pages

Change of Address
Copy Of Tax Return
Electronic Filing PIN Request
Federal Tax Form 1040
Federal Tax Form W-4
Free Tax Preparation
IRS E-file
IRS Telephone Numbers
Refund Status
Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
Small Business Tax Info
Tax Forms & Publications
Tax-Deductible Charitable Contributions
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2008
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2009
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2010


Meta

Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org


 Spam Blocked
194,879 spam comments blocked byAkismet












Higher Education Tax Benefits




					Sep 9, 2011				



Education,  IRS,  Married Couples,  Tax Credits 


For those who didn’t know, a comprehensive explanation of all of the IRS tax benefits out there regarding higher education:
There is a variety of tax credits, deductions and savings plans  available to taxpayers to assist with the expense of higher education.
 

A tax credit reduces the amount of income tax you may have to pay.
A deduction reduces the amount of your income that is subject to  tax, thus generally reducing the amount of tax you may have to pay.
Certain savings plans allow the accumulated interest to grow  tax-free until money is taken out (known as a distribution), or allow  the distribution to be tax-free, or both.
An exclusion from income means that you won’t have to pay income tax  on the benefit you’re receiving, but you also won’t be able to use that  same tax-free benefit for a deduction or credit. 

 

Credits
 
American Opportunity Credit
 
Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), more parents and students will qualify over the next two years  for a tax credit, the American opportunity credit, to pay for college  expenses.
 
The American opportunity credit is not available on the 2008 returns  taxpayers are filing during 2009. The new credit modifies the existing  Hope credit for tax years 2009 and 2010, making it available to a  broader range of taxpayers, including many with higher incomes and those  who owe no tax. It also adds required course materials to the list of  qualifying expenses and allows the credit to be claimed for four  post-secondary education years instead of two. Many of those eligible  will qualify for the maximum annual credit of $2,500 per student.
 
The full credit is available to individuals whose modified adjusted  gross income is $80,000 or less, or $160,000 or less for married couples  filing a joint return. The credit is phased out for taxpayers with  incomes above these levels. These income limits are higher than under  the existing Hope and lifetime learning credits.
 
Special rules apply to a student attending college in a Midwestern  disaster area. For tax-year 2009, only, taxpayers can choose to claim  either a special expanded Hope credit of up to $3,600 for the student or  the regular American opportunity credit.
 
If you have questions about the American opportunity credit, these questions and answers might help. For more information, see American opportunity credit.
 
Hope Credit
 
The Hope credit generally applies to 2008 and earlier tax years. It  helps parents and students pay for post-secondary education. The Hope  credit is a nonrefundable credit. This means that it can reduce your tax  to zero, but if the credit is more than your tax the excess will not be  refunded to you. The Hope credit you are allowed may be limited by the  amount of your income and the amount of your tax.
 
The Hope credit is for the payment of the first two years of tuition  and related expenses for an eligible student for whom the taxpayer  claims an exemption on the tax return. Normally, you can claim tuition  and required enrollment fees paid for your own, as well as your  dependents’ college education. The Hope credit targets the first two  years of post-secondary education, and an eligible student must be  enrolled at least half time.
 
Generally, you can claim the Hope credit if all three of the following requirements are met:
 

You pay qualified education expenses of higher education.
You pay the education expenses for an eligible student.
The eligible student is either yourself, your spouse or a dependent for whom you claim an exemption on your tax return.

 
You cannot take both an education credit and a deduction for tuition  and fees (see Deductions, below) for the same student in the same year.  In some cases, you may do better by claiming the tuition and fees  deduction instead of the Hope credit.
 
Education credits are claimed on Form 8863,  Education Credits (Hope and Lifetime Learning Credits). For details on  these and other education-related tax breaks, see IRS Publication 970,  Tax Benefits of Education.
 
Lifetime Learning Credit
 
The lifetime learning credit helps parents and students pay for post-secondary education.
 
For the tax year, you may be able to claim a lifetime learning credit  of up to $2,000 ($4,000 for students in Midwestern disaster areas) for  qualified education expenses paid for all students enrolled in eligible  educational institutions. There is no limit on the number of years the  lifetime learning credit can be claimed for each student. However, a  taxpayer cannot claim both the Hope or American opportunity credit and  lifetime learning credits for the same student in one year. Thus, the  lifetime learning credit may be particularly helpful to graduate  students, students who are only taking one course and those who are not  pursuing a degree.
 
Generally, you can claim the lifetime learning credit if all three of the following requirements are met:
 

You pay qualified education expenses of higher education.
You pay the education expenses for an eligible student.
The eligible student is either yourself, your spouse or a dependent for whom you claim an exemption on your tax return.

 
If you’re eligible to claim the lifetime learning credit and are also  eligible to claim the Hope or American opportunity credit for the same  student in the same year, you can choose to claim either credit, but not  both.
 
If you pay qualified education expenses for more than one student in  the same year, you can choose to take credits on a per-student, per-year  basis. This means that, for example, you can claim the Hope or American  opportunity credit for one student and the lifetime learning credit for  another student in the same year.
 

Deductions
 
Tuition and Fees Deduction
 
You may be able to deduct qualified education expenses paid during  the year for yourself, your spouse or your dependent. You cannot claim  this deduction if your filing status is married filing separately or if  another person can claim an exemption for you as a dependent on his or  her tax return. The qualified expenses must be for higher education.
 
The tuition and fees deduction can reduce the amount of your income subject to tax by up to $4,000. This deduction, reported on Form 8917,  Tuition and Fees Deduction, is taken as an adjustment to income. This  means you can claim this deduction even if you do not itemize deductions  on Schedule A (Form 1040). This deduction may be beneficial to you if, for example,  you cannot take the lifetime learning credit because your income is too  high.
 
You may be able to take one of the education credits for your  education expenses instead of a tuition and fees deduction. You can  choose the one that will give you the lower tax.
 
Generally, you can claim the tuition and fees deduction if all three of the following requirements are met:
 

You pay qualified education expenses of higher education.
You pay the education expenses for an eligible student.
The eligible student is yourself, your spouse, or your dependent for whom you claim an exemption on your tax return.

 
You cannot claim the tuition and fees deduction if any of the following apply:
 

Your filing status is married filing separately.  
Another person can claim an exemption for you as a dependent on his  or her tax return. You cannot take the deduction even if the other  person does not actually claim that exemption.  
Your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) is more than $80,000 ($160,000 if filing a joint return).  
You were a nonresident alien for any part of the year and did not  elect to be treated as a resident alien for tax purposes. More  information on nonresident aliens can be found in Publication 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.  
You or anyone else claims an education credit for expenses of the student for whom the qualified education expenses were paid.

 
Student-activity fees and expenses for course-related books, supplies  and equipment are included in qualified education expenses only if the  fees and expenses must be paid to the institution as a condition of  enrollment or attendance.
 
Student Loan Interest Deduction
 
Generally, personal interest you pay, other than certain mortgage  interest, is not deductible on your tax return. However, if your  modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) is less than $70,000 ($145,000 if  filing a joint return), there is a special deduction allowed for paying  interest on a student loan (also known as an education loan) used for  higher education. Student loan interest is interest you paid during the  year on a qualified student loan. It includes both required and  voluntary interest payments.
 
For most taxpayers, MAGI is the adjusted gross income as figured on  their federal income tax return before subtracting any deduction for  student loan interest. This deduction can reduce the amount of your  income subject to tax by up to $2,500.
 
The student loan interest deduction is taken as an adjustment to income.  This means you can claim this deduction even if you do not itemize  deductions on Form 1040’s Schedule A. 
 
Qualified Student Loan
 
This is a loan you took out solely to pay qualified education expenses (defined later) that were:
 

For you, your spouse, or a person who was your dependent when you took out the loan.
Paid or incurred within a reasonable period of time before or after you took out the loan.
For education provided during an academic period for an eligible student.

 
Loans from the following sources are not qualified student loans:
 

A related person.
A qualified employer plan.

 
Qualified Education Expenses
 
For  purposes of the student loan interest deduction, these expenses are the  total costs of attending an eligible educational institution, including  graduate school. They include amounts paid for the following items:
 

Tuition and fees.
Room and board.
Books, supplies and equipment.
Other necessary expenses (such as transportation).

 
The cost of room and board qualifies only to the extent that it is not more than the greater of:
 

The allowance for room and board, as determined by the eligible  educational institution, that was included in the cost of attendance  (for federal financial aid purposes) for a particular academic period  and living arrangement of the student, or
The actual amount charged if the student is residing in housing owned or operated by the eligible educational institution.

 
Business Deduction for Work-Related Education
 
If you are an employee and can itemize your deductions, you may be  able to claim a deduction for the expenses you pay for your work-related  education. Your deduction will be the amount by which your qualifying  work-related education expenses plus other job and certain miscellaneous  expenses is greater than 2% of your adjusted gross income. An itemized  deduction may reduce the amount of your income subject to tax.
 
If you are self-employed, you deduct your expenses for qualifying  work-related education directly from your self-employment income. This  may reduce the amount of your income subject to both income tax and  self-employment tax.
 
Your work-related education expenses may also qualify you for other  tax benefits, such as the tuition and fees deduction and the Hope and  lifetime learning credits. You may qualify for these other benefits even  if you do not meet the requirements listed above.
 
To claim a business deduction for work-related education, you must:
 

Be working.
Itemize your deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040 or 1040NR) if you are an employee.
File Schedule C (Form 1040), Schedule C-EZ (Form 1040), or Schedule F (Form 1040) if you are self-employed.
Have expenses for education that meet the requirements discussed under Qualifying Work-Related Education, below.

 
Qualifying Work-Related Education
 
You can deduct the costs of  qualifying work-related education as business expenses. This is  education that meets at least one of the following two tests:
 

The education is required by your employer or the law to keep your  present salary, status or job. The required education must serve a bona  fide business purpose of your employer.
The education maintains or improves skills needed in your present work.

 
However, even if the education meets one or both of the above tests, it is not qualifying work-related education if it:
 

Is needed to meet the minimum educational requirements of your present trade or business or
Is part of a program of study that will qualify you for a new trade or business.

 
You can deduct the costs of qualifying work-related education as a  business expense even if the education could lead to a degree.
 
Education Required by Employer or by Law
 
Education you need to meet the  minimum educational requirements for your present trade or business is  not qualifying work-related education. Once you have met the minimum  educational requirements for your job, your employer or the law may  require you to get more education. This additional education is  qualifying work-related education if all three of the following  requirements are met.
 

It is required for you to keep your present salary, status or job.
The requirement serves a business purpose of your employer.
The education is not part of a program that will qualify you for a new trade or business.

 
When you get more education than your employer or the law requires,  the additional education can be qualifying work-related education only  if it maintains or improves skills required in your present work.
 
Education to Maintain or Improve Skills
 
If your education is not  required by your employer or the law, it can be qualifying work-related  education only if it maintains or improves skills needed in your present  work. This could include refresher courses, courses on current  developments and academic or vocational courses.
 

Savings Plans
 
529 Plans Expanded
 
Tax-free college savings plans and prepaid tuition programs can be  used to buy computer equipment and services for an eligible student  during 2009 and 2010. These 529 plans — qualified tuition programs  authorized under section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code — have, in  recent years, become a popular way for parents and other family members  to save for a child’s college education. Though contributions to 529  plans are not deductible, there is also no income limit for  contributors.
 
529 plan distributions are tax-free as long as they are used to pay  qualified higher education expenses for a designated beneficiary.  Qualified expenses include tuition, required fees, books, supplies,  equipment and special needs services. For someone who is at least a  half-time student, room and board also qualify.
 
For 2009 and 2010, the ARRA change  adds to this list expenses for computer technology and equipment or  Internet access and related services to be used by the student while  enrolled at an eligible educational institution. Software designed for  sports, games or hobbies does not qualify, unless it is predominantly  educational in nature. In general, expenses for computer technology  are not qualified expenses for the American opportunity credit, Hope  credit, lifetime learning credit or tuition and fees deduction.
 
States sponsor 529 plans that allow taxpayers to either prepay or  contribute to an account for paying a student’s qualified higher  education expenses. Similarly, colleges and groups of colleges sponsor  529 plans that allow them to prepay a student’s qualified education  expenses.
 
Coverdell Education Savings Account
 
This account was created as an incentive to help parents and students  save for education expenses. Unlike a 529 plan, a Coverdell ESA can be  used to pay a student’s eligible k-12 expenses, as well as  post-secondary expenses. On the other hand, income limits apply to  contributors, and  the total contributions for the beneficiary of this  account cannot be more than $2,000 in any year, no matter how many  accounts have been established. A beneficiary is someone who is under  age 18 or is a special needs beneficiary.
 
Contributions to a Coverdell ESA are not deductible, but amounts  deposited in the account grow tax free until distributed. The  beneficiary will not owe tax on the distributions if they are less than a  beneficiary’s qualified education expenses at an eligible institution.  This benefit applies to qualified higher education expenses as well as  to qualified elementary and secondary education expenses.
 
Here are some things to remember about distributions from Coverdell accounts:
 

Distributions are tax-free as long as they are used for qualified  education expenses, such as tuition and fees, required books, supplies  and equipment and qualified expenses for room and board.  
There is no tax on distributions if they are for enrollment or  attendance at an eligible educational institution. This includes any  public, private or religious school that provides elementary or  secondary education as determined under state law. Virtually all  accredited public, nonprofit and proprietary (privately owned  profit-making) post-secondary institutions are eligible.  
Education tax credits can be claimed in the same year the  beneficiary takes a tax-free distribution from a Coverdell ESA, as long  as the same expenses are not used for both benefits.  
If the distribution exceeds qualified education expenses, a portion  will be taxable to the beneficiary and will usually be subject to an  additional 10% tax. Exceptions to the additional 10% tax include the  death or disability of the beneficiary or if the beneficiary receives a  qualified scholarship.

 
For more information, see Tax Tip 2008-59, Coverdell Education Savings Accounts.
 

Scholarships and Fellowships
 
A  scholarship is generally an amount paid or allowed to, or for the  benefit of, a student at an educational institution to aid in the  pursuit of studies. The student may be either an undergraduate or a  graduate. A fellowship is generally an  amount paid for the benefit of an individual to aid in the pursuit of  study or research. Generally, whether the amount is tax free or taxable  depends on the expense paid with the amount and whether you are a degree  candidate.
 
A scholarship or fellowship is tax free only if you meet the following conditions:
 

You are a candidate for a degree at an eligible educational institution.
You use the scholarship or fellowship to pay qualified education expenses.

 
Qualified Education Expenses
 
For purposes of tax-free scholarships and fellowships, these are expenses for:
 

Tuition and fees required to enroll at or attend an eligible educational institution.
Course-related expenses, such as fees, books, supplies, and  equipment that are required for the courses at the eligible educational  institution. These items must be required of all students in your course  of instruction.

 
However, in order for these to be qualified education expenses, the  terms of the scholarship or fellowship cannot require that it be used  for other purposes, such as room and board, or specify that it cannot be  used for tuition or course-related expenses. 
 
Expenses that Don’t Qualify
 
Qualified education expenses do not include the cost of:
 

Room and board.
Travel.
Research.
Clerical help.
Equipment and other expenses that are not required for enrollment in or attendance at an eligible educational institution.

 
This is true even if the fee must be paid to the institution as a  condition of enrollment or attendance. Scholarship or fellowship amounts  used to pay these costs are taxable.
 
For more information, see Pub. 970.
 

Exclusions from Income
 
You may exclude certain educational assistance benefits from your  income. That means that you won’t have to pay any tax on them. However,  it also means that you can’t use any of the tax-free education expenses  as the basis for any other deduction or credit, including the Hope  credit and the lifetime learning credit.
 
Employer-Provided Educational Assistance
 
If you receive educational assistance benefits from your employer  under an educational assistance program, you can exclude up to $5,250 of  those benefits each year. This means your employer should not include  the benefits with your wages, tips, and other compensation shown in box 1  of your Form W-2.
 
Educational Assistance Program
 
To qualify as an educational assistance program, the plan must be  written and must meet certain other requirements. Your employer can tell  you whether there is a qualified program where you work.
 
Educational Assistance Benefits
 
Tax-free educational assistance benefits include payments for  tuition, fees and similar expenses, books, supplies, and equipment. The  payments may be for either undergraduate- or graduate-level courses. The  payments do not have to be for work-related courses. Educational  assistance benefits do not include payments for the following items.
 

Meals, lodging, or transportation.
Tools or supplies (other than textbooks) that you can keep after completing the course of instruction.
Courses involving sports, games, or hobbies unless they: 

Have a reasonable relationship to the business of your employer, or
Are required as part of a degree program.



 
Benefits over $5,250
 
If your employer pays more than $5,250 for educational benefits for  you during the year, you must generally pay tax on the amount over  $5,250. Your employer should include in your wages (Form W-2, box 1) the  amount that you must include in income.
 
Working Condition Fringe Benefit
 
However, if the benefits over $5,250 also qualify as a working  condition fringe benefit, your employer does not have to include them in  your wages. A working condition fringe benefit is a benefit which, had  you paid for it, you could deduct as an employee business expense. For  more information on working condition fringe benefits, see Working Condition Benefits in chapter 2 of Publication 15-B, Employer’s Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits.
 
Related Items:
 


IR-2009-78, Special IRS Web Section Highlights Back-to-School Tax Breaks; Popular 529 Plans Expanded, New $2,500 College Credit Available


Fact Sheet 2009-12,  How 529 Plans Help Families Save for College; and How the American  Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Expanded 529 Plan Features


529 Plans: Questions and Answers


Pub. 970, Tax Benefits for Education


Tax Tip 2009-30,Offset Education Costs


FS-2009-2, Tax Credits Provide Funds for First-Time Homebuyers, Childcare, Education and More


Education Credits

 
Tax Incentives for Higher Education


There you have it with more additional resources and links to boot.


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Adjusted Gross Income, American Opportunity, Attending College, College Expenses, Course Materials, Education Tax Benefits, Free Benefit, Higher Education, Hope And Lifetime Learning Credits, Hope Credit, Income Tax, Incomes, Irs Tax, Lifetime Learning, Married Couples, Modified Adjusted Gross Income, Post Secondary Education, Reinvestment Act, Tax Credit, Tax Credits














Hurricane Irene Victims Get Tax Relief




					Sep 9, 2011				



IRS,  Personal Finance,  Tax Relief 


One less thing to worry about. The IRS is providing tax filing and payment relief in a time of need for vicitims of Hurricane Irene:
The Internal Revenue Service is providing tax relief to individual and business taxpayers impacted by Hurricane Irene. 
The IRS announced today that certain taxpayers in Connecticut,  Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina,  Puerto Rico and Vermont will receive tax relief, and other locations are  expected to be added in coming days following additional damage  assessments by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
 
The tax relief postpones certain tax filing and payment deadlines to  Oct. 31, 2011. It includes corporations and businesses that previously  obtained an extension until Sept. 15, 2011, to file their 2010 returns  and individuals and businesses that received a similar extension until  Oct. 17. It also includes the estimated tax payment for the third  quarter of 2011, which would normally be due Sept. 15.
 
Full details, including the start date for the relief in various  locations and information on how to claim a disaster loss by amending a  prior-year tax return, can be found in tax relief announcements for  individual states on this website.
 
The tax relief is part of a coordinated federal response to the  damage caused by the hurricane and is based on local damage assessments  by FEMA. For information on disaster recovery, individuals should visit disasterassistance.gov.
 
Tax Relief Available So Far
 
Filing and payment relief is currently available to taxpayers in  federal disaster areas declared in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New  Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Puerto Rico and  Vermont. The IRS expects to announce tax relief for taxpayers in other  areas as damage assessments continue. The IRS encourages taxpayers and  tax practitioners to monitor Tax Relief in Disaster Situations on this website for updates.
 
So far, IRS filing and payment relief applies to the following counties and municipalities:
 

In Connecticut: Fairfield, Hartford, Litchfield, Middlesex, New Haven, New London, Tolland and Windham;
In Massachusetts: Berkshire and Franklin;
In New Hampshire: Carroll and Grafton;
In New Jersey:  Atlantic, Bergen, Burlington, Camden, Cape May, Cumberland, Essex,  Gloucester, Hudson, Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris,  Ocean, Passaic, Salem, Somerset, Sussex, Union and Warren;
In New York:  Albany, Clinton, Columbia, Delaware, Dutchess, Essex, Greene,  Montgomery, Nassau, Orange, Otsego, Putnam, Rensselaer, Rockland,  Saratoga, Schenectady, Schoharie, Sullivan, Suffolk, Ulster, Warren,  Washington and Westchester; 
In North Carolina:  Beaufort, Bertie, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Craven,  Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Hertford,  Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton,  Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Pitt, Tyrrell, Vance, Warren,  Washington and Wilson;
In Puerto Rico:  Arroyo, Aguas Buenas, Caguas, Canovanas, Carolina, Cayey, Cidra, Coamo,  Comerio, Humacao, Jayuya, Juncos, Loiza, Luquillo, Orocovis, Patillas,  Ponce and San Juan.
In Vermont: Addison, Bennington, Caledonia, Chittenden, Orange, Rutland, Washington, Windham and Windsor;

Please no fraud and scams people.


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Business Taxpayers, Carolina Puerto Rico, Connecticut Massachusetts, Damage Assessments, Disaster Loss, Disaster Recovery, Disaster Situations, Emergency Management Agency, Estimated Tax Payment, Federal Disaster Areas, Federal Emergency Management, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency Fema, Federal Response, Hurricane Irene, Internal Revenue Service, Irs Filing, Payment Deadlines, Tax Practitioners, Tax Relief














Small Business Owners Take Notice Of The Small Business Health Care Tax Credit




					Sep 9, 2011				



Form 1040,  Health Insurance,  Small Businesses,  Tax Credits 


Some good tax news for small business owners from the IRS:
As the upcoming filing extension tax deadlines approach, the Internal  Revenue Service, in partnership with the Department of Health and Human  Services, is announcing a new round of outreach to small employers and  the professional service providers they rely on to encourage them to  review the new Small Business Health Care Tax Credit to see if they are  eligible. 
“As the filing deadlines approach, we want to make sure that small  business owners don’t leave any money on the table,” said IRS  Commissioner Doug Shulman. “Small businesses that offer health insurance  should learn about this credit and claim it if they are eligible.”
 
The small business health care tax credit was included in the  Affordable Care Act enacted last year. Small employers that pay at least  half of the premiums for employee health insurance coverage under a  qualifying arrangement may be eligible for the small business health  care tax credit. The credit is specifically targeted to help small  businesses and tax-exempt organizations that primarily employ 25 or  fewer workers with average income of $50,000 or less.
 
Small employers face two important tax filing deadlines in coming weeks:
 

September 15. Corporations that file on a calendar year basis and  requested an extension to file to September 15 can calculate the small  employer health care credit on Form 8941 and claim it as part of the  general business credit on Form 3800, which they would include with  their corporate income tax return.
October 17. Sole proprietors who file Form 1040 and partners and  S-corporation shareholders who report their income on Form 1040 and  request an extension have until October 17 to complete their returns.  They would also use Form 8941 to calculate the small employer health  care credit and claim it as a general business credit on Form 3800,  reflected on line 53 of Form 1040.

 
In addition, tax-exempt organizations that file on a calendar year  basis and requested an extension to file to November 15 can use Form 8941 and then claim the credit on Form 990-T, Line 44f.
 
As these 2010 tax return deadlines approach and businesses begin  planning for the end of 2011 and 2012, the IRS’s new outreach campaign  will focus on working with our partners:
 

The tax software industry to improve access to educational  information and to help alert small employers and practitioners when  taxpayers may be eligible for the credit.
Insurance agents, brokers and carriers who work with small  businesses to help ensure that participants in the health insurance  marketplace understand the features and benefits of the credit. The  Department of Health and Human Services today sent an email to 2,000  agents and brokers alerting them to the credit for their small business  clients.
The small business and tax practitioner community to provide additional webinars and educational opportunities about the credit.

 
Information will also be available through social media and other  venues, including IRS YouTube videos in English, Spanish and American  Sign Language. Targeted e-mails and tweets will be sent to the small  business community and tax preparers. The IRS’s new outreach effort will  remind employers about the upcoming extension deadlines and will also  provide details on other important information about the credit,  including:
 

Businesses who have already filed can still claim the credit: For  small businesses that have already filed and later determine they are  eligible for the credit, they can always file an amended 2010 tax  return. Corporations use Form 1120X and individual sole proprietors use  Form 1040X.
Businesses without tax liability this year can still benefit: The  Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 provided that for Tax Year 2010,  eligible small businesses may carry back unused general business credits  (including the small employer health care tax credit) five  years. Previously these credits could only be carried back one  year. Small businesses that did not have tax liability to offset in 2010  should still evaluate eligibility for the small business health care  tax credit in light of this expanded carry back opportunity.
Businesses that couldn’t use the credit in 2010 can claim it in  future years: Some businesses that already locked into health insurance  plan structures and contributions for 2010 may not have had the  opportunity to make any needed adjustments to qualify for the credit for  2010. So these businesses may be eligible to claim the credit on 2011  returns or in years beyond. Small employers can claim the credit for  2010 through 2013 and for two additional years beginning in 2014.

 
In addition to today’s IRS announcement, HHS posted additional information on this credit to HealthCare.gov at: http://www.healthcare.gov/news/blog/smallbusiness09072011.html.  Additional information about eligibility requirements and calculating  the credit can be found on the Small Business Health Care Tax Credit for  Small Employers page of IRS.gov.
It’s always good to hear of tax credits in this economy.


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Affordable Care, Average Income, Business Health, Corporation Shareholders, Employee Health Insurance, Employer Health, Form 1040, Health Insurance Coverage, Income Tax Return, Internal Revenue Service, Irs Commissioner, Irs Filing, Professional Service Providers, S Corporation, Shulman, Small Business Owners, Sole Proprietors, Tax Deadlines, Tax Exempt Organizations, Tax Filing Deadlines














Personal Finance – Importance of Financial Planning to Avoid Debts




					Apr 5, 2011				



Debt 



Why should you give time to personal finance planning? It is important or you to plan your personal finance ahead of time so that you are able to save money and expend less and secure your future. It also helps you in investing your money the right way, thereby helping you earn extra profits. Personal finance panning also helps you in developing yourself as a more responsible and mature person. Personal finance also helps you to avoid debts. So, you can also try to get advice on debt consolidation from a financial planner who can help you in both managing your finances and paying off your debts through consolidation.

Why is personal finance important?

Your personal finance planning can help you to remove the blindfold on your finances. This in turn helps you to manage your finance in a much better way. Thus, you are not only able to save more and more money; you are also able to avoid incurring more debts.

Planning your personal finance includes various steps starting from budgeting, to saving for your future, your retirement, for your home purchase or any other kind of large expenses. Financial planning helps you to allocate your hard earned money properly for the various purposes in your life like paying for your everyday expenditures, medical purposes, other emergency purposes, financial obligations and so on.

You can also include a virtual piggy bank in your personal budgeting plan. These virtual piggy banks are mainly maintained by the banks and they allow you to save the small changes that are left from your payments. For example, if you have made a transaction for $56, but you are actually required to pay $55.25, the bank takes the extra 0.75 and puts it in your virtual piggy bank. In this way you start saving money. At the beginning, you may think that this is only small money. But, gradually you will be able to find out that it helps you to save a considerable amount of money. You can then use this money to pay off your debts even through consolidation. If needed, you can even get good advice on debt consolidation from a credit counseling company.

A well chalked out plan helps you to manage your income more efficiently. Your income goes for various purposes including your tax payments and so it is better to plan in advance so that you do not miss your tax payments. Otherwise, you may have to face serious consequences; tax debt is in no way easy debt.

Personal finance planning is also good for your investment. It helps you to identify the investment opportunities, and also helps you to allocate your money into different investment vehicles in the right way. However, you can also get advice from a financial and investment planner in order to invest your money in the best investment vehicle.

Personal financial planning also helps you to get the right security for your family and get the right insurance policies. Today the jobs are more like, you work and you get the money. Gone are the days of good pension and so it is really important for you to save money from the beginning so that you are able to secure your family and your future. It also helps you to get the right insurance and the right coverage from the beginning so that it helps you in case of emergencies.

So, you can see that personal finance planning and management really helps you to have a better grip on your finances. Thereby, it also helps you to improve your standards of living.

Jason Holmes is a regular writer with Debt Consolidation Care and is also a contributory writer with other financial sites. His expertise is woven around various aspects of the debt industry and with his e-books he tries to impart to people the different situations and simple solutions to get out of difficult situations. Some of his works include e-books like ‘Credit Score The Quintessential Therapy for a Happy Pocket’, Take Creditors and Collection Agencies to Small Claims Court’ and, My Story- From Depression To a Smile’.



Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Amount Of Money, Blindfold, Debt, Debt Consolidation, Debts, Emergency Purposes, Expenditures, Financial Obligations, Financial Planner, Hard Earned Money, Importance Of Financial Planning, Managing Your Finances, Mature Person, Medical Purposes, Personal Budgeting, Personal Finance, Personal Finance Planning, personal financing, Piggy Bank, Piggy Banks, Profits, saving money, Small Changes














IRS Announces New Effort to Help Struggling Taxpayers Get a Fresh Start; Major Changes Made to Lien Process




					Mar 23, 2011				



IRS,  Tax Liens 


A little help from the IRS:
In its latest effort to help struggling taxpayers, the Internal  Revenue Service today announced a series of new steps to help people get  a fresh start with their tax liabilities. 
The goal is to help individuals and small businesses meet their tax  obligations, without adding unnecessary burden to taxpayers.  Specifically, the IRS is announcing new policies and programs to help  taxpayers pay back taxes and avoid tax liens.
“We are making fundamental changes to our lien system and other  collection tools that will help taxpayers and give them a fresh start,”  IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said. “These steps are good for people  facing tough times, and they reflect a responsible approach for the tax  system.”
Today’s announcement centers on the IRS making important changes to  its lien filing practices that will lessen the negative impact on  taxpayers. The changes include:

Significantly increasing the dollar threshold when liens are generally issued, resulting in fewer tax liens.
Making it easier for taxpayers to obtain lien withdrawals after paying a tax bill.
Withdrawing liens in most cases where a taxpayer enters into a Direct Debit Installment Agreement.
Creating easier access to Installment Agreements for more struggling small businesses.
Expanding a streamlined Offer in Compromise program to cover more taxpayers.

“These steps are in the best interest of both taxpayers and the tax  system,” Shulman said. “People will have a better chance to stay current  on their taxes and keep their financial house in order. We all benefit  if that happens.”
This is another in a series of steps to help struggling taxpayers. In  2008, the IRS announced lien relief for people trying to refinance or  sell a home. In 2009, the IRS added new flexibility for taxpayers facing  payment or collection problems. And last year, the IRS held about 1,000  special open houses to help small businesses and individuals resolve  tax issues with the Agency.
Today’s announcement comes after a review of collection operations  which Shulman launched last year, as well as input from the Internal  Revenue Service Advisory Council and the National Taxpayer Advocate.
Tax Lien Thresholds
The IRS will significantly increase the dollar thresholds when liens  are generally filed. The new dollar amount is in keeping with  inflationary changes since the number was last revised. Currently, liens  are automatically filed at certain dollar levels for people with  past-due balances.
The IRS plans to review the results and impact of the lien threshold change in about a year.
A federal tax lien gives the IRS a legal claim to a taxpayer’s  property for the amount of an unpaid tax debt. Filing a Notice of  Federal Tax Lien is necessary to establish priority rights against  certain other creditors. Usually the government is not the only creditor  to whom the taxpayer owes money.
A lien informs the public that the U.S. government has a claim  against all property, and any rights to property, of the taxpayer. This  includes property owned at the time the notice of lien is filed and any  acquired thereafter. A lien can affect a taxpayer’s credit rating, so it  is critical to arrange the payment of taxes as quickly as possible.
“Raising the lien threshold keeps pace with inflation and makes sense  for the tax system,” Shulman said. “These changes mean tens of  thousands of people won’t be burdened by liens, and this step will take  place without significantly increasing the financial risk to the  government.”
Tax Lien Withdrawals
The IRS will also modify procedures that will make it easier for taxpayers to obtain lien withdrawals.
Liens will now be withdrawn once full payment of taxes is made if the  taxpayer requests it. The IRS has determined that this approach is in  the best interest of the government.
In order to speed the withdrawal process, the IRS will also  streamline its internal procedures to allow collection personnel to  withdraw the liens.
Direct Debit Installment Agreements and Liens
The IRS is making other fundamental changes to liens in cases where  taxpayers enter into a Direct Debit Installment Agreement (DDIA). For  taxpayers with unpaid assessments of $25,000 or less, the IRS will now  allow lien withdrawals under several scenarios:

Lien withdrawals for taxpayers entering into a Direct Debit Installment Agreement.
The IRS will withdraw a lien if a taxpayer on a regular Installment Agreement converts to a Direct Debit Installment Agreement.
The IRS will also withdraw liens on existing Direct Debit Installment greements upon taxpayer request.

Liens will be withdrawn after a probationary period demonstrating that direct debit payments will be honored.
In addition, this lowers user fees and saves the government money  from mailing monthly payment notices. Taxpayers can use the Online  Payment Agreement application on IRS.gov to set-up with Direct Debit  Installment Agreements.
“We are trying to minimize burden on taxpayers while collecting the  proper amount of tax,” Shulman said. “We believe taking away taxpayer  burden makes sense when a taxpayer has taken the proactive step of  entering a direct debit agreement.”
Installment Agreements and Small Businesses
The IRS will also make streamlined Installment Agreements available  to more small businesses. The payment program will raise the dollar  limit to allow additional small businesses to participate.
Small businesses with $25,000 or less in unpaid tax can participate.  Currently, only small businesses with under $10,000 in liabilities can  participate. Small businesses will have 24 months to pay.
The streamlined Installment Agreements will be available for small  businesses that file either as an individual or as a business. Small  businesses with an unpaid assessment balance greater than $25,000 would  qualify for the streamlined Installment Agreement if they pay down the  balance to $25,000 or less.
Small businesses will need to enroll in a Direct Debit Installment Agreement to participate.
“Small businesses are an important part of the nation’s economy, and  the IRS should help them when we can,” Shulman said. “By expanding  payment options, we can help small businesses pay their tax bill while  freeing up cash flow to keep funding their operations.”
Offers in Compromise
The IRS is also expanding a new streamlined Offer in Compromise (OIC) program to cover a larger group of struggling taxpayers.
This streamlined OIC is being expanded to allow taxpayers with annual  incomes up to $100,000 to participate. In addition, participants must  have tax liability of less than $50,000, doubling the current limit of  $25,000 or less.
OICs are subject to acceptance based on legal requirements. An  offer-in-compromise is an agreement between a taxpayer and the IRS that  settles the taxpayer’s tax liabilities for less than the full amount  owed. Generally, an offer will not be accepted if the IRS believes that  the liability can be paid in full as a lump sum or through a payment  agreement. The IRS looks at the taxpayer’s income and assets to make a  determination regarding the taxpayer’s ability to pay.
Related Items:

IRS Begins Tax Season 2009 with Steps to Help Financially Distressed Taxpayers; Promotes Credits, e-File Options ( IR-2009-2)
IRS Speeds Lien Relief for Homeowners Trying to Refinance, Sell ( IR-2008-141)

Source


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Better Chance, Collection Tools, Compromise Program, Direct Debit, Dollar Threshold, Fundamental Changes, Installment Agreement, Installment Agreements, Internal Revenue Service, Irs Commissioner, Irs Help, Negative Impact, Offer In Compromise, Responsible Approach, Shulman, Tax Liabilities, Tax Liens, Tax Obligations, Tough Times, Unnecessary Burden, Withdrawals














CPA From Springfield Steals More Than $400,00 From Families




					Mar 23, 2011				



Fraud,  Tax Crimes,  Tax Evasion,  Trusts 


A familiar story:
A certified public accountant from Springfield pleaded guilty to two  counts of mail fraud and one count of tax evasion in federal court on  Tuesday.  Murphy Hubbard agreed to be sentenced to 42 months in prison  and be ordered to pay full restitution to the victims in this case,  including the IRS. 
According to court documents, Hubbard owned and operated an  accounting and tax business known as The Hubbard Group.  Hubbard  embezzled more than $400,000 from two trusts placed under his control by  local families between 1998 and 2009.
The first of these trusts, created by Hazel Beatrice Hirst of  Springfield, designated four local charities as the beneficiaries of her  life’s savings.  The second trust, established by the heirs of Noel  Rummens of Rogersville, was created for the express purpose of funding  educational expenses for Rummens’s surviving heirs and relatives.
Rather than fulfilling the wishes of these families by faithfully  executing their trust agreements, Hubbard instead took the vast majority  of this money for himself, using it to pay personal expenses, to buy  items such as automobiles and farm equipment, and for travel.  Virtually  all of the money taken from these trusts went unreported to the IRS,  resulting in a tax loss of approximately $79,434.
The case was investigated by the IRS.
Source


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Beatrice, Beneficiaries, Certified Accountant, Certified Public Accountant, Charities, Court Documents, Cpa, Educational Expenses, Hazel, Heirs, Hirst, Hubbard, IRS, Mail Fraud, Personal Expenses, Restitution, Tax Business, Tax Evasion, Trust Agreements, Trusts














26-year-old Is Arrested on Charges of Theft By Conversion After Allegedly Withdrawing More Than $43,000 From A Local ATM




					Mar 22, 2011				



Banks,  Tax Crimes,  Tax Fraud,  Tax Returns,  Tax Scams 


Almost got away with it:
Dunwoody Police have arrested a 26-year-old Douglasville man who  allegedly took part in an IRS tax refund scam to withdraw more than  $43,000 from a local bank.
According to police, Victor Okorie was arrested last Wednesday at the ATM machine at Fidelity Bank, 135 Perimeter Center W.
Police were contacted by the bank’s corporate security investigator,  who said there had been consistent, suspicious withdrawals from that  ATM. A man had been coming to the ATM after midnight for three nights  and was withdrawing $400 on each transaction from different bank  accounts.
Police set up to monitor the ATM and saw Okorie drive up and start  making several transactions. He took the cash and dropped the receipts  on the ground, police said.
When police approached, they saw several stacks of $20s and several  debit cards in the front seat of his vehicle. Okrorie was arrested on  one count of felony Theft by Conversion.
He told police he’d been working with someone who provided the debit cards and PIN numbers for each, police said.
It appears, from the initial investigation, that someone established  the bank accounts and then electronically filed bogus tax returns. They  requested automatic deposit into the bank accounts for the tax returns.  Once the returns were deposited, they would withdraw the money, police  said.
Police say the refunds look to be substantial, based on the balances  left on the debit cards they confiscated. They also found evidence that  there was a similar crime at banks in Gwinnett County.
Anyone with information on this activity is asked to contact Det. Robert Bentivegna at 678-382-6911.
Source



Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Atm Machine, Bank Accounts, Bentivegna, Corporate Security, Debit Cards, Felony Theft, Fidelity Bank, Front Seat, Gwinnett County, Initial Investigation, Irs Tax Refund, Local Bank, Okorie, Perimeter Center, Pin Numbers, Receipts, Stacks, Tax Returns, Theft By Conversion, Withdrawals














Wow…Lots of Big Stars Are in Big Trouble With the Tax Man Tsk Tsk Tsk




					Mar 22, 2011				



Celebrity,  Income Taxes,  Tax Attorneys,  Unpaid Taxes 




AP
March 26, 2010: Al Pacino poses for a portrait in Beverly Hills, Calif.

Despite their high-priced tax attorneys and mega-millions, big stars can find themselves in big trouble come tax time.
Take Hollywood director Martin Scorsese. He  was recently nailed with a $2.85 million bill for unpaid taxes. Scorsese  was charged for past-due tax and related interest penalties. Although  Scorsese’s spokeswoman Leslee Dart says the entire amount is now paid in  full and that he has no current IRS debts, sources say the  Oscar-winning director’s tax woes are due to his dealings with celebrity  accountant Kenneth Starr. Starr was jailed for seven and a half years  for a $33 million ponzi scheme, and has duped other superstars in his  corrupt plots. He scammed Hollywood heavyweights such as Uma Thurman,  Lauren Bacall and Al Pacino, to name a few.
Pacino allegedly failed to pay taxes for two  years, a bill for $169,143 in 2008 and $19,140 in 2009, totaling  $188,283. Anyone who would stiff this “Godfather” star out of $200,000  might be sleeping with the fishes too, but luckily for Al Pacino, the  IRS doesn’t handle their business the same way the mob does. Pacino  poured the blame on Starr, his business manager and close friend for  years. The money hungry financier apparently used a lot of his  fraudulent earnings to play sugar-daddy to his younger wife, ex-pole  dancer Diane Passage, who enjoyed a lavish lifestyle. “Managers can be  very helpful, but many are not skilled in the area of tax planning and  some are outright greedy when given control of celebrities finance,”  said Ray Lucia, a certified financial planner.
A spokesperson for Pacino said the  “Scarface” actor is working to resolve the situation as soon as possible  with a new financial manager.
Another Hollywood cash cow who skipped his  IRS bill is Jennifer Lopez’s husband, Marc Anthony. The Latin crooner  owes $3.4 million for unpaid taxes on his Long Island mansion. Anthony  has a history of running from the tax man. In 2007 he failed to pay  taxes on his $15 million income over a five-year-period and ended up  paying $2.5 million in back taxes. One might assume that such a power  couple would have a better handle on their finances, but some tax  attorneys aren’t surprised. “They live in a world where everyone gives  them more and more leeway and slack — and they slowly develop an  attitude of being above it all,” said Doug Burns, a federal prosecutor  who has prosecuted dozens of tax fraud cases.
One pop star even sang a song about paying  bills, the aptly titled “Bills Bills Bills,” but then forgot to fork up  the cash herself. Former Destiny’s Child singer Kelly Rowland owes  $98,634 in back taxes. The government filed a lien against her on Nov.  8, according to the Detroit News. The songstress hasn’t had much success  since splitting from the Beyonce Knowles-led girl group. She also  recently parted ways with her long-time manager and Beyonce’s father,  Matthew Knowles. “Celebs who are attending to other details in their  lives may brush taxes aside for later, but by then it’s too late,” said  CelebTV.com host Kelli Zink.
“Survivor” winner Richard Hatch has had his  fair share of tax trouble. The reality star spent three years in jail  for failing to pay taxes on the $1 million prize money he won on the hit  show. Hatch is heading back to the slammer for not settling a tax bill  that is now reportedly up to $2 million. Hatch is currently starring in  Donald Trump’s “Celebrity Apprentice” show. Although the episodes of the  series have already been filmed, he will miss the live finale in May  while he finishes his sentence behind bars. Along with his prison term,  Hatch will remain under supervision for 26 months, and 25 percent of his  wages will be garnished to pay back the IRS.
Joe Francis, founder of “Girls Gone Wild,”  also spent some time behind bars for his tax tribulations and says the  IRS targets celebrities every year around tax day. To avoid glitches in  your taxes, Francis recommends Hollywood newcomers hire reputable  business managers and get references from their other clients. “Good  financial managers are helpful, ones like Bernie Madoff are awful. I was  young, I was making a lot of money,” Francis said. “You trust people  like lawyers and accountants. I didn’t even sign my own tax return. I  didn’t even question it.”
Read more:




Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Antho, Cash Cow, Certified Financial Planner, Director Martin Scorsese, Hollywood Director, Husband Marc, Interest Penalties, Irs Bill, Island Mansion, Kenneth Starr, Lauren Bacall, Lavish Lifestyle, Leslee Dart, Martin Scorsese, Pole Dancer, Ray Lucia, Sleeping With The Fishes, Tax Attorneys, Tax Woes, Tsk Tsk, Unpaid Taxes














ALABAMA COUPLE CHARGED WITH TAX EVASION AND CONSPIRACY




					Mar 21, 2011				



Tax Crimes,  Tax Evasion 


A superseding indictment was unsealed  against Patricia Ervin and Monty Ervin of Dothan, Ala., charging them  with three counts of tax evasion and one count of conspiring to defraud  the United States, the Justice Department and the Internal Revenue  Service (IRS) announced today.   Patricia Ervin also remains charged with structuring cash  deposits to evade laws requiring banks to report currency transactions  in excess of $10,000.
The indictment was announced by Leura G. Canary, U.S. Attorney for the  Middle District of Alabama, and John A. DiCicco, Principal Assistant  Attorney General for the Tax Division.
According to the indictment, Monty Ervin and Patricia Ervin owned and  managed Southern Realty, a property management company in Dothan.   As alleged in the indictment, they placed properties in the  names of nominees in an attempt to conceal their income and assets from  the IRS.
An indictment merely alleges that a crime has been committed, and a  defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable  doubt.   If convicted, Patricia Ervin faces a maximum of 25 years in prison and a maximum fine of $1.25 million.   If convicted, Monty Ervin faces a maximum of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $1 million.
This case was investigated by IRS – Criminal Investigation and is being  prosecuted by Tax Division Trial Attorneys Justin Gelfand and Michael  Boteler and Assistant U.S. Attorney Brent Woodall.
Source


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 Ala, Assistant Attorney, Brent Woodall, Cash Deposits, Conspiracy, Currency Transactions, Defendant, Gelfand, Guilty Beyond A Reasonable Doubt, Internal Revenue Service, Irs Criminal Investigation, Justice Department, Leura, Middle District Of Alabama, Property Management Company, Southern Realty, Superseding Indictment, Tax Attorneys, Tax Evasion, Trial Attorneys














The IRS Has $1.1 Billion for People Who Have Not Filed a 2007 Income Tax Return




					Mar 12, 2011				



Federal Taxes,  IRS,  Income Taxes,  Student Loans,  Tax Returns,  Taxpayers,  US Treasury,  Wage Earners 


If you haven’t filed your 20007 return, you may want to:
Refunds totaling more than $1.1 billion may be waiting for nearly  1.1 million people who did not file a federal income tax return for  2007, the Internal Revenue Service announced today. However, to collect  the money, a return for 2007 must be filed with the IRS no later than  Monday, April 18, 2011. 
The IRS estimates that half of these potential 2007 refunds are $640 or more.
Some people may not have filed because they had too little income to  require filing a tax return even though they had taxes withheld from  their wages or made quarterly estimated payments. In cases where a  return was not filed, the law provides most taxpayers with a three-year  window of opportunity for claiming a refund. If no return is filed to  claim a refund within three years, the money becomes property of the  U.S. Treasury.
For 2007 returns, the window closes on April 18, 2011. The law  requires that the return be properly addressed, mailed and postmarked by  that date. There is no penalty for filing a late return qualifying for a  refund.
The IRS reminds taxpayers seeking a 2007 refund that their checks  will be held if they have not filed tax returns for 2008 and 2009. In  addition, the refund will be applied to any amounts still owed to the  IRS, and may be used to offset unpaid child support or past due federal  debts such as student loans.
By failing to file a return, people stand to lose more than a refund  of taxes withheld or paid during 2007. In addition, many  low-and-moderate income workers may not have claimed the Earned Income  Tax Credit (EITC). The EITC helps individuals and families whose incomes  are below certain thresholds, which in 2007 were $39,783 for those with  two or more children, $35,241 for people with one child, and $14,590  for those with no children. For more information, visit the EITC Home Page.
Current and prior year tax forms and instructions are available on the Forms and Publications  page of IRS.gov or by calling toll-free 1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676).  Taxpayers who are missing Forms W-2, 1098, 1099 or 5498 for 2007, 2008  or 2009 should request copies from their employer, bank or other payer.  If these efforts are unsuccessful, taxpayers can get a free transcript  showing information from these year-end documents by ordering on-line, calling 1-800-908-9946, or by filing Form 4506-T, Request for Transcript of Tax Return, with the IRS.
Individuals Who Did Not File a 2007 Return with a Potential Refund




State


Individuals


Median
Potential
Refund


Total
Potential
Refunds ($000)*




Alabama


17,600


$634


$15,649




Alaska


5,200


$688


$6,545




Arizona


31,000


$543


$29,217




Arkansas


9,100


$606


$8,111




California


124,000


$597


$129,205




Colorado


20,900


$588


$21,591




Connecticut


11,900


$714


$14,769




Delaware


4,000


$658


$4,121




District of Columbia


4,400


$629


$4,751




Florida


74,500


$665


$87,293




Georgia


36,800


$590


$35,475




Hawaii


7,600


$717


$8,960




Idaho


4,600


$540


$4,340




Illinois


38,800


$692


$44,168




Indiana


20,200


$679


$19,864




Iowa


9,500


$668


$8,411




Kansas


10,400


$621


$9,601




Kentucky


11,200


$660


$10,449




Louisiana


19,500


$663


$20,327




Maine


3,600


$606


$4,398




Maryland


25,100


$645


$27,727




Massachusetts


23,000


$701


$26,881




Michigan


30,800


$663


$31,943




Minnesota


14,000


$604


$13,786




Mississippi


9,400


$585


$8,440




Missouri


20,300


$604


$18,588




Montana


3,400


$607


$3,185




Nebraska


4,700


$620


$4,509




Nevada


15,000


$630


$15,575




New Hampshire


3,900


$741


$4,960




New Jersey


31,000


$705


$36,504




New Mexico


7,900


$594


$7,510




New York


62,600


$706


$78,405




North Carolina


29,300


$565


$26,385




North Dakota


1,600


$635


$1,877




Ohio


33,200


$620


$30,240




Oklahoma


15,200


$620


$14,280




Oregon


17,600


$521


$15,309




Pennsylvania


34,600


$686


$35,317




Rhode Island


3,100


$644


$3,380




South Carolina


12,400


$561


$11,132




South Dakota


2,000


$639


$1,937




Tennessee


17,200


$633


$17,049




Texas


91,700


$692


$104,801




Utah


7,600


$560


$8,392




Vermont


1,700


$672


$1,694




Virginia


29,800


$629


$31,380




Washington


28,200


$702


$34,692




West Virginia


3,500


$686


$3,484




Wisconsin


12,900


$593


$11,609




Wyoming


2,700


$788


$3,350




Grand Total


1,060,200


$640


$1,120,566




*Excluding the Earned Income Tax Credit and other credits.
Source


Share and Enjoy:























 


No Comments 

 1 Billion, Debts, Federal Income Tax, Federal Income Tax Return, Income Tax Credit, Income Tax Return, Incomes, Information Visit, Internal Revenue Service, IRS, Moderate Income, Prior Year Tax Forms, Student Loans, Tax Returns, Taxpayers, Thresholds, U S Treasury, Unpaid Child Support, Wages, Window Of Opportunity










« Older Posts









Search


Pages

Change of Address
Copy Of Tax Return
Electronic Filing PIN Request
Federal Tax Form 1040
Federal Tax Form W-4
Free Tax Preparation
IRS E-file
IRS Telephone Numbers
Refund Status
Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
Small Business Tax Info
Tax Forms & Publications
Tax-Deductible Charitable Contributions
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2008
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2009
U.S. Tax Brackets – 2010


 



 

September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Apr
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 



Archives

September 2011 (3)
April 2011 (1)
March 2011 (6)
August 2010 (6481)
July 2010 (9256)
June 2010 (9126)
May 2010 (9048)
April 2010 (8891)
March 2010 (2653)
February 2010 (40)
January 2010 (62)
December 2009 (9)
November 2009 (4)
October 2009 (46)
September 2009 (58)
August 2009 (23)
July 2009 (49)
June 2009 (45)
May 2009 (3)
April 2009 (6)
March 2009 (15)
February 2009 (30)
January 2009 (24)
November 2008 (10)
October 2008 (20)
September 2008 (11)
August 2008 (14)
July 2008 (2)
June 2008 (3)
May 2008 (2)
April 2008 (3)
March 2008 (13)
February 2008 (4)
January 2008 (25)
December 2007 (2)
November 2007 (1)
October 2007 (2)
September 2007 (1)
August 2007 (3)
July 2007 (6)


Categories



1st Time Homebuyers

401K

AGI

Alternative Minimum Tax

Amended Return

AMT

Annuities

Audits

Automobiles

Back Taxes

Bankruptcy

Banks

Bonds

Business Deductions

Business Expenses

Business Mileage

Business Taxes

Capital Gains

Celebrity

Chapter 11 Bankruptcy

Charitable Deductions

Charitable Donations

Child Support

Consumerism

Copies Of Tax Return

Corporate Taxes

Cost Basis

CPAs

Credit

Credit Cards

Credit Crisis

Credit Markets

Credit Unions

Debt

Deductions

Department Of Justice

Department Of Revenue

Dependent Credits

Dependent Students

Disability Benefits

Double Taxation

E Filing

Earned Income Exclusion

Earned Income Tax Credit

Economic Recovery Payment

Education

Employment

Energy Efficiency

Energy Tax Credit

Entrepreneurship

Equity Line Of Credit

Estate Planning

Estate Tax

Excise Tax

Expenses

Fannie Mae

Fantastic Freebbies

FBAR Form

FDIC

Federal Health Programs

Federal Lawsuits

Federal Reserve

Federal Taxes

FHA

FICA

Flexible Spending Accounts

Foreclosures

Foreign Taxes

Form 1023

Form 1040

Form 1040a

Form 1040es

Form 1040ez

Form 1040x

Form 1098

Form 1099

Form 1116

Form 2106

Form 2120

Form 4506 T

Form 4868

Form 5405

Form 5695

Form 6251

Form 8332

Form 8379

Form 8822

Form 8829

Form 8850

Form 8888

Form 9465

Form 990

Fraud

Freddie Mac

GDP

Gifts

Goals

Grants

Gross Income

Gurus

Head Of Household

Health & Fitness

Health Care

Health Care Bill

Health Insurance

Home Equity

Home Improvements

Homebuyer Tax Credit

Hope Credit

HUD

Income Interest

Income Tax Withholding

Income Taxes

Independent Contractor

Individual Income Tax

Inheritance Tax

InjuredSpouse

Installment Agreements

Insurance

Insurance Trusts

Interest Dividends

Interest Expenses

Interest Income

Interest Rates

Investing

IRA

IRS

Kiddie Tax

Law Attorneys

Life Insurance

Lifetime Learning Credit

Living Trusts

Loans

Lottery Winnings

Married Couples

Medical Expenses

Medicare Tax

Military

Money

Mortgage Insurance

Mortgage Interest

Mortgage Lending

Mortgage Rates

Mortgage Relief

Mortgage Revenue Bonds

Mortgages

Municipal Bonds

Mutual Funds

Offshore Accounts

Payroll

Pension Benefits

Personal Exemptions

Personal Finance

Politics

Product Update

Progressive Tax

Property Taxes

Publication 17

Publication 3

Publication 463

Publication 501

Publication 503

Publication 523

Publication 529

Real Estate

Receipts

Retirement Plans

Retirement Savings

Roth Ira

Sales Tax

Savings

Schedule A

Schedule M

SEC

Section 179

Self Employment

Senate Finance Committee

Small Businesses

Social Security

Software

Standard Deductions

State Taxes

Stimulus Plans

Stocks

Student Loans

Swiss Accounts

Tax Administration

Tax Advice

Tax Amnesty

Tax Attorneys

Tax Audit

Tax Basis

Tax Benefits

Tax Bills

Tax Brackets

Tax Breaks

Tax Burden

Tax Collectors

Tax Compliance

Tax Credits

Tax Crimes

Tax Debt

Tax Deductions

Tax Evasion

Tax Exemptions

Tax Filing

Tax Forms

Tax Fraud

Tax Gains

Tax Gap

Tax Havens

Tax Help

Tax Incentives

Tax Increases

Tax Law

Tax Liens

Tax Loopholes

Tax Losses

Tax Payments

Tax Penalties

Tax Planning

Tax Preparation

Tax Preparation Assistance

Tax Preparers

Tax Provisions

Tax Rates

Tax Rebates

Tax Records

Tax Reform

Tax Refund Loans

Tax Refunds

Tax Relief

Tax Returns

Tax Scams

Tax Shelters

Tax Tables

Tax Tips

Taxable Gifts

Taxable Income

Taxes

Taxpayers

Tips

Travel

Travel Expenses

Treasury Bills

Trusts

Uncategorized

Unearned Income

Unemployment Benefits

Unpaid Taxes

US Economy

US Treasury

Video

W2

Wage Earners

Withholding Tax





2000 Music Radio
60's R&B
70's R&B
80's Hip Hop
80's R&B
90's Hip Hop
90's R&B
ABC News
Almost Gospel
Ambience
AOL Money & Finance
Bandana Fever
Bankrate
Beat Street
Black Gospel
Blues
Business Week
Cash Money Biz
Census Bureau
Christmas Carols
Club Jointz
CNN Money
Contemporary Gospel
Def Beatz
Down Home Blues
Economist
Famous Shoes
Federal Reserve
FHA (Federal Housing Administration)
Fool.com
Forbes
Fusion
Google
Google Finance
Gospel Downloads
Hip Hop 1
Hip Hop MP3s
IRS (Internal Revenue Service)
Jazz
Kiplinger
Love Unlimited
MSN Money Central
Nasdaq Stock Market
New Hip Hop
New R&B
New York Stock Exchange
Nike SB
Online Conversion
PC Money Secrets
Pop Fizz
Pop/Dance
R&B MP3s
R&B Radio
Reggae
Rhythm & Grooves
Riddims
Rock
S l o M o t i o n
Smart Money
Soul Stirring Gospel
Streaming Jazz
Submit Your Music For Airplay
The Greatest Love
The Mesothelioma Advisor
Traditional Gospel
Urban Music 2000
Urban Music 2000 Blog
Urban Music 2000 Forum
US Dept Of Treasury
Women & Shoes
WSJ (Wall Street Journal)
Yahoo Finance


Money
How Change is Made… At the U.S. MintThe usefulness of change — that of pennies, in particular – has been debated for years. Pennies and nickels cost more to produce than their face value — but the U.S. Mint keeps hammering them out nonetheless, along with dimes and quarters, totalling billions of coins each year at a cost of millions of dollars.
On July 25, [...]the best gardening info periodHome gardening for beginners is usually a great experience if you know the best way to properly care for household plants. If carried out accordance to certain fundamental requirements it will also help you have a healthy and refreshing home life. Having a garden at your house  brings a substantial amount of attractiveness and freshness. [...]


Share and Enjoy:























Dragonblight Gold - Making Loads of WOW GoldThe Auction House is one of the least physically risky places in the World of Warcraft. You don’t have to worry about bloodthirsty orcs or marauding centaurs breaking in. You can go about your business and hopefully earn some gold. On the other hand, there is nothing but physical danger all around you if you [...]


Share and Enjoy:























What Are The Must-have Features Of A Registry CleanerA large number of computers crash because of poor maintenance.  You have to do some regular maintenance jobs like scanning and repairing the registry even if the computers seem to be running perfectly. Otherwise, problems may arise. 
You need to clean the registry of your system regularly with the help of a registry cleaner optimizer. If [...]


Share and Enjoy:























Vacation Journey as well as Information on Choosing the best Resort for your PleasureEveryone requirements a vacation correct? Many people escape every year to find a way in the working hours of everyday living so they can merely unwind as well as take joy within a brand new as well as different environment. Your journey should be with regard to relaxation, nevertheless, just before you can get for [...]


Share and Enjoy:
























 


 Get the IRS Tax Support widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox!

Most Tweeted
Politicians seek tax help for Chinese drywall victims  (62257 Tweets)Question:   I am receiving long-term disability. Is it considered taxable? (11811 Tweets)IRS Clarifies Requirement for Filing FBAR Form Due This Month (11104 Tweets)Obama announces plan to close tax loopholes (10143 Tweets)Seattle grand jury indicts 3 in tax shelter scheme (8835 Tweets)
My Favorite Tweets

My Tweets
IRSTaxSupport.com Rialto tax preparers get prison, fines after defrauding IRS http://tinyurl.com/kod5kk 06/24/09 02:27pmIRSTaxSupport.com IRS Tax Compliance Efforts Show Mixed Results http://tinyurl.com/lrfkmt 06/24/09 10:24amIRSTaxSupport.com Easing a College Financial Aid Headache http://tinyurl.com/lautrh 06/24/09 10:16amIRSTaxSupport.com UBS Case Not Being Dropped, Justice Department Says http://tinyurl.com/l7ukpv 06/24/09 09:47amIRSTaxSupport.com Time is running out on $8,000 tax credit http://tinyurl.com/kpkpby 06/24/09 09:33am
 




Categories

 (44762)

1st Time Homebuyers (22)

401K (10)

AGI (17)

Alternative Minimum Tax (6)

Amended Return (3)

AMT (12)

Annuities (2)

Audits (10)

Automobiles (13)

Back Taxes (9)

Bankruptcy (6)

Banks (37)

Bonds (5)

Business Deductions (1)

Business Expenses (4)

Business Mileage (3)

Business Taxes (17)

Capital Gains (12)

Celebrity (12)

Chapter 11 Bankruptcy (1)

Charitable Deductions (5)

Charitable Donations (11)

Child Support (7)

Consumerism (9)

Copies Of Tax Return (1)

Corporate Taxes (3)

Cost Basis (1)

CPAs (7)

Credit (11)

Credit Cards (41)

Credit Crisis (7)

Credit Markets (4)

Credit Unions (1)

Debt (27)

Deductions (14)

Department Of Justice (1)

Department Of Revenue (1)

Dependent Credits (17)

Dependent Students (1)

Disability Benefits (1)

Double Taxation (2)

E Filing (5)

Earned Income Exclusion (8)

Earned Income Tax Credit (3)

Economic Recovery Payment (2)

Education (17)

Employment (23)

Energy Efficiency (12)

Energy Tax Credit (2)

Entrepreneurship (12)

Equity Line Of Credit (2)

Estate Planning (7)

Estate Tax (2)

Excise Tax (5)

Expenses (2)

Fannie Mae (2)

Fantastic Freebbies (1)

FBAR Form (1)

FDIC (2)

Federal Health Programs (4)

Federal Lawsuits (4)

Federal Reserve (12)

Federal Taxes (61)

FHA (3)

FICA (1)

Flexible Spending Accounts (1)

Foreclosures (7)

Foreign Taxes (3)

Form 1023 (1)

Form 1040 (14)

Form 1040a (5)

Form 1040es (1)

Form 1040ez (3)

Form 1040x (4)

Form 1098 (2)

Form 1099 (1)

Form 1116 (1)

Form 2106 (2)

Form 2120 (1)

Form 4506 T (5)

Form 4868 (2)

Form 5405 (2)

Form 5695 (1)

Form 6251 (1)

Form 8332 (2)

Form 8379 (1)

Form 8822 (1)

Form 8829 (1)

Form 8850 (1)

Form 8888 (1)

Form 9465 (1)

Form 990 (1)

Fraud (34)

Freddie Mac (2)

GDP (1)

Gifts (1)

Goals (11)

Grants (1)

Gross Income (7)

Gurus (4)

Head Of Household (6)

Health & Fitness (4)

Health Care (3)

Health Care Bill (8)

Health Insurance (13)

Home Equity (1)

Home Improvements (3)

Homebuyer Tax Credit (2)

Hope Credit (3)

HUD (1)

Income Interest (2)

Income Tax Withholding (1)

Income Taxes (107)

Independent Contractor (1)

Individual Income Tax (2)

Inheritance Tax (1)

InjuredSpouse (1)

Installment Agreements (4)

Insurance (14)

Insurance Trusts (1)

Interest Dividends (3)

Interest Expenses (1)

Interest Income (1)

Interest Rates (4)

Investing (78)

IRA (22)

IRS (238)

Kiddie Tax (6)

Law Attorneys (1)

Life Insurance (2)

Lifetime Learning Credit (3)

Living Trusts (1)

Loans (20)

Lottery Winnings (1)

Married Couples (9)

Medical Expenses (5)

Medicare Tax (2)

Military (4)

Money (220)

Mortgage Insurance (1)

Mortgage Interest (5)

Mortgage Lending (17)

Mortgage Rates (3)

Mortgage Relief (7)

Mortgage Revenue Bonds (2)

Mortgages (1)

Municipal Bonds (2)

Mutual Funds (1)

Offshore Accounts (21)

Payroll (1)

Pension Benefits (5)

Personal Exemptions (4)

Personal Finance (214)

Politics (46)

Product Update (4)

Progressive Tax (2)

Property Taxes (12)

Publication 17 (1)

Publication 3 (1)

Publication 463 (1)

Publication 501 (5)

Publication 503 (1)

Publication 523 (2)

Publication 529 (1)

Real Estate (66)

Receipts (1)

Retirement Plans (6)

Retirement Savings (16)

Roth Ira (8)

Sales Tax (5)

Savings (11)

Schedule A (2)

Schedule M (2)

SEC (4)

Section 179 (1)

Self Employment (8)

Senate Finance Committee (3)

Small Businesses (12)

Social Security (21)

Software (7)

Standard Deductions (2)

State Taxes (14)

Stimulus Plans (27)

Stocks (15)

Student Loans (8)

Swiss Accounts (16)

Tax Administration (7)

Tax Advice (5)

Tax Amnesty (1)

Tax Attorneys (3)

Tax Audit (5)

Tax Basis (2)

Tax Benefits (7)

Tax Bills (5)

Tax Brackets (6)

Tax Breaks (24)

Tax Burden (1)

Tax Collectors (3)

Tax Compliance (5)

Tax Credits (68)

Tax Crimes (17)

Tax Debt (13)

Tax Deductions (22)

Tax Evasion (43)

Tax Exemptions (15)

Tax Filing (2)

Tax Forms (27)

Tax Fraud (30)

Tax Gains (2)

Tax Gap (3)

Tax Havens (10)

Tax Help (11)

Tax Incentives (2)

Tax Increases (3)

Tax Law (22)

Tax Liens (12)

Tax Loopholes (1)

Tax Losses (1)

Tax Payments (1)

Tax Penalties (7)

Tax Planning (2)

Tax Preparation (4)

Tax Preparation Assistance (3)

Tax Preparers (30)

Tax Provisions (1)

Tax Rates (8)

Tax Rebates (13)

Tax Records (4)

Tax Reform (10)

Tax Refund Loans (1)

Tax Refunds (15)

Tax Relief (7)

Tax Returns (40)

Tax Scams (4)

Tax Shelters (5)

Tax Tables (3)

Tax Tips (4)

Taxable Gifts (1)

Taxable Income (8)

Taxes (52)

Taxpayers (40)

Tips (2)

Travel (13)

Travel Expenses (1)

Treasury Bills (3)

Trusts (2)

Uncategorized (361)

Unearned Income (3)

Unemployment Benefits (3)

Unpaid Taxes (6)

US Economy (58)

US Treasury (41)

Video (8)

W2 (2)

Wage Earners (2)

Withholding Tax (5)



 



Tags
Auto Dealers
Auto Loans
Banking Industry
Banks
Borrowers
Buzzword
Consumer Advocates
Consumer Protections
Consumer Reports
Consumer Reports Money
Consumer Reports Money Adviser
Consumerreports Org
Consumers Union
Continental Airlines
Credit Score
Debit Cards
Department Of Transportation
E Mail
Expert Ratings
Federal Deposit Insurance
Federal Reserve
Federal Trade Commission
Greg Daugherty
Independent Consumer
iPhone
IRS
J Mcgee
Low Cost Carriers
Mortgage Payments
New York Times
Obama
Overdraft Fees
Payday Lenders
Payday Loans
Recession
Reform Legislation
Reliability
Retirement
Retirement Planning
Securities And Exchange Commission
Social Security
State Attorneys
Tax Information
United Airlines
U S Department








	Powered by WordPress 
	 ·  
	Disciple theme


  Amazon.com Widgets










Web Stats


