lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2006 » August






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Thursday, August 31, 2006
Claude Bordeleau

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:37 am 
 

Claude Bordeleau is a Canadian illustrator, designer and cartoonist who has done work for Warner Brothers and Cartoon Networks as well as a number of other editorial and advertising clients. 
Bordeleau has a springy, lively cartoon illustration style with lots of energy and color that is nicely restrained with precision linework. He uses a rich color palette and often accents his color work with touches of texture. 
His site includes examples of his illustration, character design, caricature and comics work.
Note: the site contains some NSFW material.
 


Link: www.claudebordeleau.com

Posted in:  Illustration   |   Comments »


Wednesday, August 30, 2006
Zip and Li’l Bit (Trade Loeffler)

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:02 am 
 


Zip and Li’l Bit is a webcomic by Trade Loeffler that is simultaneously quite modern and nicely retro. By “retro” in this case, I’m referring to newspaper comics from the early part of the 20th Century (or “Golden Age”, coinciding with the Golden Age of illustration).
I say that partly because of the excellent drawing, which has echoes of classic strips, particularly in the carefully portrayed backgrounds, and partly because of the gentle, whimsical approach to characters and story. The linework on the characters, although it fits nicely with the backgrounds, is crisp and modern, owing more to Bill Watterson than McCay or McManus. 
This is particularly easy to see because the strip has an absolutely wonderful feature, possible only in webcomics, that allows you to click on any panel and see it enlarged. 
Loeffler also has a subtle, balanced color palette that he uses quite effectively in service of the story, always keeping the focus on the characters. The nice combination of new and traditional sensibilities, along with the artfulness and craft that goes into the strip, put me in mind of Kazu Kibuishi and Rad Sechrist.
Zip and Elizabeth (Li’l Bit) are a young brother and sister whose first adventure, The Upside-down Me features their friend Officer John and what seems to be a version of Zip who walks on the ceiling. The story takes place while everyone else is sleeping. (As an interesting side note, Zip walks around in his PJ’s, the kind with feet, that have a letter on the front; except that is seems to be a different letter in each panel.)
The project was originally planned as a printed graphic story, but Loeffler has repurposed it as a webcomic and is posting pages twice weekly, on Thursdays and Sundays.
There are only 11 pages posted as of this writing, but the strip is beginning to get some well-deserved attention, already garnering mentions on Bolt City and Drawn!.


Link: www.zipandbit.com

Posted in:  Comics,Webcomics   |   1 Comment »


Tuesday, August 29, 2006
Illustration Mundo

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:01 am 
 

Illustration Mundo is a portal/blog (for lack of better terms) devoted to illustration. It was created by  Illustrator Nate Williams because he felt the lack of a portal site specifically for illustration (as opposed to those which included design, photography, film, etc. as well as illustration).
The site has recently incorporated Erik Olsen’s illustration podcast blog Iconic, which features interviews with working illustrators with a focus on their working process. This is a fascinating angle on illustration that is seldom encountered, hearing the artists comment on their work and process in their own words.
If you find the main page a bit overwhelming in terms of selections, the site can be accessed in several ways through the navigation at the top. The Articles tab gives you the main articles arranged in reverse chronological order like most blogs (image at left), and you can sort into spotlighted articles, Iconic Audio, print Interviews and so on. 
The articles are brief, but usually showcase several pieces by the illustrator and, if available, some personal photos. The podcasts that have now moved over to Illustration Mundo from the Iconic site are marked by an icon (what else?) in the upper left. There are also tabs for News and community oriented features like Polls and Forums.  
On the About page, Williams and Olson invite you to become involved and encourage you to submit news, participate in the forums and place your work in the Illustrator Database. Most of the articles also allow for comments in the usual fashion for blogs. 
The site also uses a  “Favorites” and “User Rating” system to rate the illustrators in the database (by votes, clicks, most tagged as favorites, etc.). I’ve seen this feature on CGI portals and I’m still dubious about the value of such systems. It may help you find something others like and it may cause you to miss things. 
You might actually do better with a feature like Illustration Mundo’s  “100” tab, which serves up 100 random illustrators, with links to their websites, arranged simply as squares captured from their images. 
 


Link: www.illustrationmundo.com/

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Monday, August 28, 2006
Art-o-mat

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:41 am 
 


OK, so you’re in an art museum shop, nosing through the Impressionist calendars and Cezanne-on-a-cup bric-a-brac,  and you notice what appears to be… a cigarette vending machine. 
Huh?
“What is this?”, you think, “a MOMA-style exhibition of industrial design?” Hmmm…, you walk closer and it becomes obvious that the machine is not vending death-sticks from the American food-tobacco-drug-&-chemical cartel; it is, in fact, vending art! 
You look at the machine again. Art-o-mat, it declares in some variation of 60′s modern display script or cartoon-like banner. It’s an art vending machine! Who’d-a-thunk-it?
Art-o-mat is a project that started in 1997 with a solo art exhibit by artist Clark Whittington at a local cafe in Winston-Salem, North Carolina (ah, the poetic irony of it all). Along with 12 of his paintings, Whittington installed a  cigarette machine, the actual use of which had been recently banned, in which he dispensed his black and white photographs for $1.00.
At the point that the show was to close, Cynthia Giles, the owner of the cafe, asked Whittington if the machine could remain, as it had be come a hit. She introduced Whitting to other local artists and they formed Artists in Cellophane, which went on to establish the Art-o-mat project.
The Art-o-mat vending machines dispense small original art objects that are the approximate size and shape of cigarette packages, or can be packed in a box with those dimensions. The guidleines for artists interested in participating gives the details. The wonderfully refurbished and redecorated machines are often works in themselves. 
The Art-o-mat project now has over 400 participating artists vending art from 82 active Art-o-mat machines in the US (and now internationally), usually in museum stores and shops in areas where an art-oriented clientele can be found, like whole foods markets and cafes. You can find the nearest Art-o-mat to you on this list. The original machine in Winston-Salem is still there.
Art-o-mat art objects allow you to collect original art for $5.00 a pop, not much more than an actual pack of the legally addicting little cancer-tubes, and art is not only much better for you than cigarettes, it doesn’t make your clothes smell like a smoldering garbage heap (well, at least most art).


Link: www.artomat.org

Posted in:  Outsider Art   |   3 Comments »


Sunday, August 27, 2006
Armand Serrano (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:34 pm 
 


I posted about visual development artist Armand Serrano last month. Since then his web site has had a complete redesign with added material and a much improved interface. 
I mentioned in my original post that the interface of the old site was a bit frustrating and difficult to use. His new design is superb and could almost be a model for how to display a portfolio of artwork on the web. 
First of all, the home page gives a succinct description of what the site is about and who the artist is (you’d be surprised how many “high-end” professionally designed sites neglect to do that). The galleries are arranged by subject and once you click on a thumbnail, it opens in the gallery space in the same window and you have a convenient “Next”, “Back” and “return to gallery” navigation; no pop-up windows, no “click to open, click to close” or “click and click back”, thank you very much. Other artists and portfolio site designers please take note.
None of this would matter, of course, if Serrano’s work wasn’t interesting enough to make it worth looking through all of the galleries, and of course, it is.
He has a rich, textured pencil style in many of his layout drawings for movies like Lilo and Stitch that makes for beautiful tone studies of interiors and landscapes. The interiors in particular have a great feeling for the textures of wood and cloth. 
His monochromatic background layouts for Tarzan are soaked in rain and overflowing with moss and lush undergrowth, and background layouts for Mulan take their cues from Chinese ink painting.
There are also galleries of concept designs and illustrations that feature more of his color work. There are designs that seem to be for fun rather than a specific project, like the wonderfully unusual design for a flying craft above. 
There are also comic pages from Serrano’s participation in the El Pacifico pirate-themed collaborative comic project in which he is joined by Marcelo Vignali and Marcos Mateu.


Link: http://armandserrano.com
www.armandserrano.blogspot.com/

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   5 Comments »


Saturday, August 26, 2006
John White Alexander

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:27 am 
 

John White Alexander was an American illustrator and painter in the Victorian era. He studied in Munich and for a while joined a colony of painters Frank Duveneck had established in Bavaria. On the advice of James McNeill Whistler, he continued his studies in Florence, Amsterdam and  Paris before returning to the U.S. in 1881.
I’ve been hard pressed to find many examples of his illustration on the web, but his portrait paintings are represented in several museum art collections. 
In his later career, he devoted himself to portraiture and counted Oliver Wendell Holmes, R.A.L. Stevenson and Walt Whitman among his formal portrait subjects, and did a large charcoal portrait of Whistler.
The image shown here is of Isabella and the Pot of Basil, a literary theme he shared with some Pre-Raphaelite painters. It’s interesting to compare his elegant theatrical staging of the subject with William Holman Hunt’s luminous and richly detailed take on the same scene. 
Alexander’s portrait paintings are most often full-length or 3/4 portraits of women, dressed in Victorian finery and occasionally languorously draped across a divan or couch with skirts flowing out in waves of shimmering fabric. You’ll also find examples of portraits of younger women or young girls, and he’ll occasionally sneak in a New Hampshire landscape.
Like Sargent, who immediately comes to mind when looking at Alexander’s portraits, Alexander has an open painterly style, at times with broad visible brushstrokes that coalesce into solid realism when viewed from the painting’s intended distance. Also like Sargent, Alexander has a great command of the texture of fabrics, hair and skin with a surprising economy of rendering.
 


Link: Art Renewal Center
Ciudad de la pintura
CGFA
Artcyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Friday, August 25, 2006
James Jean

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:12 am 
 


James Jean is an illustrator who is widely recognized in the comic book community for his distinctive and beautifully done covers for DC Comics.
Born in Taiwan, educated at the School of Visual Arts and currently living in LA, Jean has an impressive list of illustration clients including Time, Playboy, Wired, SPIN, The New York Times and Rolling Stone. In addition to his work for DC comics, his clients in the comic book industry include Marvel, Dark Horse and Fantagraphics.
His main site has galleries of his work arranged either by client and by project. You’ll find comic covers in the section called “Coverwork”. There are also sections for sketchbooks, paintings and “Recess”, a project about “childhood and ghosts”.
His work can be in turns elegant and beautiful or startling and disturbing. There is always a firm underpinning of solid draftsmanship and strong design.
Jean has a well regarded blog called Process Recess, that includes examples of his work, sometimes presented in several stages as in his cover for the special 5Oth issue of DC Comics’ Fables, shown above. You will also find sketches and figure drawings. 
There is a book of his work, Process Recess: The Art of James Jean.
Link via Cat Morley’s Designers who blog. There is an interview with Jean in this column of  Morley’s Cat’s fancy, on the same page as interviews with yours truly and John Martz of Drawn!, who has also posted about James Jean here and here. 
Drawn! also points out that there is an interview with Jean on The Hundreds. Unfortunately, it’s hidden in abysmally poor navigation and is in an awkward horizontally scrolling interface. Go here and look for the James Jean link – I think it’s about the fifth or sixth thumbnail down on the left.


Link: www.jamesjean.com
www.processrecess.com

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, August 24, 2006
Pablo Lobato

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:50 am 
 

I was writing about the geometry of faces in yesterday’s post about Modigliani. Well, there’s geometry of faces and then there’s geometry of faces!
Pablo Lobato is an designer, illustrator and caricaturist from Argentina who has an uncanny ability to distill the essence of a likeness out of starkly graphic geometric shapes. 
The structures of his famous faces are amazingly abstract (in the true meaning of that word) and the images are wonderfully composed as graphic designs. The result is a beautiful blend and balance of design and drawing.
Caricaturists often seem to try to push the envelope to see how far they can distort a face and yet keep or reinforce the strength of the likeness. Lobato excels here as well, presenting objects that almost seem like they couldn’t even be used to represent a human face if viewed individually, that come together in an uncannily strong likeness. 
Most of his portraits are of musicians and actors, and occasionally of sports or political figures or even one of his artistic heroes, Picasso.
Lobato has done work for Rolling Stone, The Chicago Tribune, The Boston Globe, Time, TV Guide and The New York Daily News, among others. 
There is an article here on Illustration Mundo, and a gallery on the site of his rep, Anna Goodson.
The links page of his site includes links to other artists and caricaturists as well as related sites.
Link via Metafilter.
 


Link: www.lobaton.com.ar/
www.agoodson.com/folio/pablo.html

Posted in:  Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, August 23, 2006
Amedeo Modigliani

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:48 am 
 

Amedeo Modigliani was one of the first artists, beyond my teenage infatuation with Surrealism, that led me into an appreciation for modern art. (I should make a caveat that my appreciation for modernism is largely concentrated in the first half of the 20th Century, before the boring postwar theorists elected themselves the raison d’être for visual art.)
I stumbled across Modigliani’s  work while thumbing through art books in the school library, and immediately hunted down an inexpensive paperback of his work at the local bookstore. There was just some innate charm about the freedom with which he distorts the faces and figures, drawing them out with an almost cartoon-like sensibility, that captured my attention.  
His brash colors and large graphic shapes filled with texture add to the appeal, making a fascinating visual soup of lines, colors and forms. Modigliani’s  figures lean and twist, their geometry askew as though gravity has shifted to an an angle off of perpendicular. His faces are sometimes perched atop elongated necks, as if striving to be taller, and are often tilted to one side in some quizzical inflection. 
His geometrically distilled portraits and languorous nudes project a warmth and humanity that is often lacking in the work of many of the other modern painters, who seemed to be striving to remove those characteristics from their angular collisions of shapes and colors.
Modigliani was friends with Romanian sculptor Constantin Brancusi, who sparked his interest in sculpture and introduced him to the primal appeal of African masks, which would greatly influence his work.,
Modigliani’s charms were wasted on the art patrons of the time, even those interested in the other emerging modern painters. His work became very popular years after it was too late to do anyone but the gallery owners any good.
Sadly, Modigliani lived the tragic, falsely romanticized life of the “starving artist”. So charming and romantic was this lifestyle that the desperation and shame of his poverty, along with bouts of chronic illness, drove him to be consumed by drink and drugs in addition to the tuberculosis that cut short his life in 1920 at the age of 35.
The Royal Academy of Arts in London, UK has just mounted the first major exhibition of his work in forty plus years: “Modigliani and His Models“, which runs from July 6 to October 15, 2006. There is also a book associated with the exhibit, Modigliani and His Models by Emily Braun, Kenneth Silver, Simonetta Fraquelli and Kenneth Wayne, but it hasn’t been released in the US yet. Modigliani is well represented in art publishing, though, and you’ll find numerous titles in bookstores.
Taks a look through Modigliani’s portraits and figures and you’ll see the source for much of the stylization in the 50′s and 60′s animators and the current crop of retro-sixties-modern animators and illustrators. At the very least, you may get a different slant on things.
Link via Art Knowledge News.
 


Link: Modigliani and His Models at RA
Ciudad de la pintura, probably the largest online selection
Webmuseum
Olga's Gallery (ad warning)
Artcyclopedia (links to other resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Tuesday, August 22, 2006
Aaron St. Goddard

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:30 am 
 


Canadian concept artist Aaron St. Goddard has done illustration, concept design, storyboards and matte painting for companies like Piazo Publishing (who seems to have taken over Dungeon and Dragon magazines from TSR), Darrel Brown Media, Radical Entertainment and Mainframe Entertainment. (Mainframe is responsible for my all-time favorite 3-D CGI TV show, Reboot.)
St. Goddard’s site showcases his designs for environments and characters (like the hazard-suited character above left), but the stars of his oeuvre are his nicely scary creatures (like the minotaur above right). 
The site also features a step-through (not exactly a tutorial) of his coloring process and promises a similar feature for his drawing process in the near future.  
St Goddard seems to work primarily digitally, drawing and painting his characters and environments in Photoshop. He also works in 3-D applications. 
His approach is generally one of color-filled linework, rendered far enough to give a relatively finished painted appearance. This gives his exotic creatures and wild characters a degree of realism while keeping the loose feeling of a drawing. 
There is a brief interview with him on Animation Arena.
St. Goddard is also the creator of Bunchies (inset) which are um,.. animal creature kind of thingies that have become something of a phenomenon on the Web. 


Link: www.wildpixels.com/brasshorse/
www.wildpixels.com/bunchies

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting   |   Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 Women Painting Women - a terrific art blog: http://t.co/6fu8dK3 New Lines and Colors post.  17 hours ago RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 2011/09/11 The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  2011/09/11


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






