Jon Chait and understanding Obama. | RedState













About
Contribute
Contact
Advertise Here
Help




Conservative News, Books, & Views
Conservative Book Club
Regnery Books




RedState.com
                : Conservative Blog and News
                






















Hot Topics: Barack Obama
 • debt ceiling
 • Obama
 • 2012
 • politics
 • Rick Perry
 • Coffee and Markets
 • Morning Briefing
 



Recent Posts
Log In
Sign Up

















Jon Chait and understanding Obama.














						Posted by Moe Lane (Profile)											

						Monday, September 5th at 1:00PM EDT					
12 Comments 


Jonathan Chait really, really, really wants liberals to not notice that President Obama is no George W Bush.  How much does he want it?  He wants it badly enough to jettison the entire idea of the Imperial Presidency (don’t worry: Chait and the rest will start grousing about it again on, say, January 20, 2013).  Nope, it’s not Barry Obama’s fault that he couldn’t spin insanely lopsided Congressional majority straw into policy gold, because of… separation of powers:
The most common hallmark of the left’s magical thinking is a failure to recognize that Congress is a separate, coequal branch of government consisting of members whose goals may differ from the president’s. Congressional Republicans pursued a strategy of denying Obama support for any major element of his agenda, on the correct assumption that this would make it less popular and help the party win the 2010 elections. Only for roughly four months during Obama’s term did Democrats have the 60 Senate votes they needed to overcome a filibuster.
[snip]
That kind of analysis, however, just feels wrong to liberals, who remember Bush steamrolling his agenda through Congress with no such complaints about obstructionism. Salon’s Glenn Greenwald recently invoked “the panoply of domestic legislation — including Bush tax cuts, No Child Left Behind and the Medicare Part D prescription drug entitlement — that Bush pushed through Congress in his first term.”
First term.
Hee.
Let’s talk about Bush’s second term, instead.  Actually, let’s talk about the second half of Bush’s second term.
Picture the scenario: it’s January of 2007.  Congress has just flipped from Republican to Democratic control; the numbers are 49/51 Republican/Democrat in the Senate, 202/233 R/D in the House.  The Democrats have run explicitly on an anti-Republican and anti-Bush platform; the expectation was that the President would be thus constrained or overruled on a variety of topics, including the most important one of the time.  I refer, of course, to what would be later called the Global War on Terror, which touched on everything from the liberation of Iraq to proper detainee policy to vigorous domestic counter-terrorist data analysis.  I’ll give a spoiler now: Chait mentioned none of this in his essay, largely because doing so would have been… awkward.
And it’s awkward because George W Bush, despite not actually having a majority in Congress, achieved the following in the GWOT between 2007 and 2009:

Prevented the war in Iraq from being abandoned.
Prevented the war in Iraq from being defunded.
Successfully instituted a ‘surge’ policy that allowed us to finally actually stabilize Iraq.
Reauthorized FISA.
Let me repeat that: REAUTHORIZED FISA.  The Democratic base invested an incredible amount of time, money, sweat, and influence in trying to sabotage our foreign-to-domestic data mining operations; their abject failure to prevent a clean bill from passage should be the subject of books.

In other words, when it came to the war – which the netroots hated, up until, oh, January 20, 2009; and which motivated most of them to become politically active – George W. Bush found it possible to actually define the goals and tactics, despite the fact that he was facing an opposition that dwarfed anything that Barack Obama faced in 2009 and 2010.  And that happened because George W Bush (despite his faults) was and is a better politician than Barack Obama is – and a better man as well.  You see, when Bush said that something was important to him, it typically turned out that it was important to him.  And so he’d fight for it. Obama doesn’t fight for things.  He just wants other people to give Obama the things that he wants, and he gets very, very petulant when he doesn’t get them.
Which is sufficiently obvious that you have to wonder about Chait’s title for his article (“What the Left Doesn’t Understand About Obama”).  I think that more people on the Left than are willing to admit it in public understand Obama quite well: he’s no fighter.  The question is, does Chait understand this, too? – And if he doesn’t, then how long before Chait starts wearing his underwear outside of his pants?
Moe Lane (crosspost)




Sponsored Content





Category: 2012, Barack Obama, Elections, George W Bush, jon chait 















RSS feed
12 Comments 

	Leave a comment














																					Chait & human thought, alien realms.						

johnt 

								Monday, September 5th at 1:24PM EDT							

								(link)
							








The first quoted para should be cut in rock somewhere, large majorities in both Chambers in O’s first term & he blames the GOP.
He suggests idiocy by pointing out the childishly obvious, the “separate and equal” thing.  Of course and again largely in the Dems favor, & with agreement on the issues, putting aside mind numbing incompetence and stupidity.
And the inevitable but by now vomitive, blame the Republicans, the last refuge of children afraid of looking in the mirror.
Bush made mistakes, but he was and is a man.  More than you an say for either Obama or certainly Chait,

“a man’s admiration for absolute government is proportinate to the contempt he feels for those around him”. Tocqueville



Log in to Reply 




 





















																					This reminds me of a story about Sir Lawrence Olivier						

romeg

								Monday, September 5th at 1:32PM EDT							

								(link)
							








the details of which are a bit fuzzy so I will cut to the punch line. Sir Larry’s response to the somewhat silly question about his portrayal of a character posed by his interviewer was “It’s called Acting, Dear Boy.”
In the case of  Dubya vs Obama, it’s called “Leadership, Dear Boy.”, that  chemical element essential to every political leader of which Barack Hussein Obama is utterly devoid.
“Of all tyrannies a tyranny sincerely exercised for the good of its victim may be the most oppressive. It may be better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies. The robber baron’s cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be satiated, but those who torment us for our own good will torment us without end for they do so with the approval of their own conscience.” – C. S. Lewis



Log in to Reply 







																					The Olivier quote was a statement to Dustin Hoffman						

rickbull

								Monday, September 5th at 1:53PM EDT							

								(link)
							








during the making of “Marathon Man.”  It was in reference to the fact that Hoffman had not slept for 72 hours in order to attain the anxiety needed to portray his character during the infamous “dentist drilling” sequence of the film.  Olivier was neither a student nor a fan of method acting.

“The only difference between a tax man and a taxidermist is that the taxidermist leaves the skin.” — Mark Twain



Log in to Reply 




 




 





















																					Jonathan Chait						

whiskeyjim

								Monday, September 5th at 2:20PM EDT							

								(link)
							








I’ve tried to read Mr. Chait. The issue is twofold; he begins with assumptions that are so debatable that one often wants to discuss his priors more than the article.
The second issue is his selectivity. As outlined in the Bush example in the post above, Mr. Chait skews his reasoning through selective memory in such fundamental doses that his columns often make the opposite point that any review of the actual facts warrant.
I believe Mr. Chait remains popular because of these glaring issues, not despite of them. For he does have a knack for redistributing facts to fit the Progressive narrative. As habitual reading of his column demonstrates, it takes quite some doing. In fact, I would describe some of Mr. Chait’s columns as heroic. 
The man clearly lives on a different planet. And a number of his readers dearly wish to make believe they are living there with him.


Log in to Reply 




 





















																					Understanding Chait						

benko

								Monday, September 5th at 2:35PM EDT							

								(link)
							








I happened to do my professional training partly under Chait’s father who was a conservative, which I suppose speaks for itself.


Log in to Reply 







																					Great observation!  nt						

carolina

								Monday, September 5th at 8:09PM EDT							

								(link)
							








.


Log in to Reply 




 







																					Great observation!  nt						

carolina

								Monday, September 5th at 8:09PM EDT							

								(link)
							








.


Log in to Reply 




 




 





















																					Chait is, and has always been, a leftist hack						

Adjoran

								Monday, September 5th at 3:05PM EDT							

								(link)
							








He writes well enough, but he’s a prisoner of the mindset of the left:  everything he believes and thinks he knows is part of the construct, the Marxist narrative of humanity.  He cannot break free of this.
The hack propagandist’s duty is not shedding light upon his subject, but rather kicking up more dust to cloud the truth enough so that the failures of the Narrative can be excused in a fog.
If Obama personally slit the throats of five elderly nuns, Chait would find a reason for it, or at least a reason to blame it on the Republicans.
Reading the worthless hack’s output destroys brain cells.  You are better off taking a handful of sedatives and tranquilizers and washing them down with grain alcohol than spending a minute reading Chait’s drivel.


Log in to Reply 




 





















																					Chait's not so good at math						

6eorge Jetson

								Monday, September 5th at 4:23PM EDT							

								(link)
							








Only for roughly four months during Obama’s term did Democrats have the 60 Senate votes they needed to overcome a filibuster.
Specter announces switch, reported 4/28/2009 (after voting FOR the Porkulus).
Scott Brown Defeats Martha Coakley on 01/19/2010
Too bad the Dem’s think that spending $3.8 trillion /yr is “roughly” in line with $2.2 trillion of annual revenues.

           How about, oh, another $447 billion?



Log in to Reply 




 





















																					Whom is Chait trying to convince?						

renl57

								Monday, September 5th at 6:54PM EDT							

								(link)
							








The Dems aren’t buying his argument:
“I worked in Congress for five years as a lawyer to a senior US Senator. I think I’m familiar with Congress’ existence, and how it works.  Yet, I still am highly critical of the President’s refusal to stand up to Congress….
“George W. Bush never had more than 55 Republicans in the Senate throughout his eight year term, and I don’t recall him whining about how weak he was.”
    — John Aravosis, AmericaBlog
http://tinyurl.com/3sazr6n
The hard-core Left isn’t buying it:
“Why Obama’s Beltway Apologists are Letting Us Down:
“Progressive defenders of Obama need to stop trying to discredit critics like Drew Westen [and Jonathan Chait], and be honest with Americans about the President and our politics….
“What’s understandable to all liberals is that the President is in peril and that the likely alternatives to him are worse. What’s objectionable is that his writerly defenders, truth-tellers by profession, aren’t any more candid than he’s been about the unsustainable premises and practices they’ve all ended up defending.”
   — Jim Sleeper, AlterNet
http://tinyurl.com/3g3u8ym
These lefties will still vote for Obama in 2012, if only to try to stop a conservative from becoming President.
But they have a lot fewer illusions than they used to about the nature of the guy they’re going to be voting for.  (Gallup has liberal approval of Obama down to 68%.  That’s the lowest it’s been yet.)


Log in to Reply 







																					I shrug at their pain...						

Moe Lane

								Monday, September 5th at 8:09PM EDT							

								(link)
							








…and the following is why:
“These lefties will still vote for Obama in 2012, if only to try to stop a conservative from becoming President.”
This is precisely why they keep getting the belt from the Democratic establishment.  Frankly, it’s why the netroots deserve the belt: if you can’t respect yourself, don’t expect anybody else to, either.
The Kim Kardashian of blogging.
Check out my blog at http://moelane.com/.
http://moelane.com/filthy-lucre-filthy-lucre/
http://twitter.com/moelane
My (combined) wish list.



Log in to Reply 




 




 





















																					As I read, I was thinking "first term"						

trutexan

								Monday, September 5th at 10:03PM EDT							

								(link)
							








But one of the things that Bush should have dug his heels in during the 109th Congress in 2006 was signing into law H.R. 6407: Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act.  It’s in the news now that the USPS will default by the end of the year.  The only reason they will default is because the law requires them to pre-fund healthcare for current and future employees.  What on earth was he thinking?  Sure the bill was sponsored by a Republican (VA11) and co-sponsored by Waxman and 2 NY weenies, but it had the unanimous support of the Senate.  
I’m hearing from a local USPS union president that they want to go after FedEx and UPS in a capitalist way to become competitive and bring in more revenue but federal laws won’t allow it.  He’s a big lib and union guy, but he’s also so frustrated.  He says that revenues are actually up but HR 6407 is what’s putting them in default.  And they are the ONLY “company” that is required to pre-fund healthcare for its workers.  And that’s what’s bankrupting them.
I was anti-Obama before it was cool.



Log in to Reply 




 




















Leave a Comment





							Click here to cancel "reply".
						








												Comment title:
											








												Your thoughts:
												(smaller size
larger size)
											






 


												Be respectful, or be banned.  No Profanity.
											



 









 












«Pssst!  Maxine Waters (D, CA)!
This is the current Texas wildfire situation.»











Get Local

Colorado
Florida
Georgia
Pennsylvania



Select state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming





















			
            COMMENTS
            
							

								COMMENTS
							







I do think that quitting her job was fatal in terms
by Mike gamecock DeVine


Gardasil (Perry's flub)
by LiveStronger


"Phony pretense of neutrality"
by Leon H. Wolf


BTW
by lomein


A contrast: Dem's vs Republicans
by lastgopinillinois


Google?
by lomein


Thank you for admitting you are dumb.
by mbecker908


Gee, that really speaks well of his influence.
by mbecker908


yeah, no kidding, right?
by lomein


Shriner.
by mbecker908


But I thought...
by lomein


I find people making complete fools of themselves
by mbecker908


Ummm.........what?
by Jake W


Palin's approval in AK before the media's lynching:
by gt80


I'm sure we all harken back to
by lastgopinillinois


Isn't that WHY he demamded 2.4Trillion
by lastgopinillinois


I won't watch the undefeated.. even though I helped pay for it. 
by snowshooze


The fact that Jane Wyman would not comment on Reagan
by rickbull


Exactly GC!
by civil truth


Rinse...Repeat
by TopGun


My personal policy...
by Bill S


Bored now. [nt]
by Moe Lane


NYT cover story tomorrow: dems worried about BO
by carolina


TooBurnedToWriteDown
by notpropagandized


Yep
by DerKrieger


Stay classy there, Scope nt
by aesthete


1 year won't get them the 7000 jobs amazon
by carolina


I think there is more to it than that......
by carolina


ps-  Ron Paul's people
by Scope


Thank you Mikey
by Scope


SGT Treat-  If that is how you feel
by Scope


I came reallllllly close to adding a DOOM. tag...
by Moe Lane


Perfect example of crony capitalism
by carolina


Perfect example of crony capitalism
by carolina


I'd suggest that
by aesthete


Sadly true
by aesthete


Yep, and there are several other good things she has going for her
by snowshooze


Chicago school.
by acat


100% agreed nt
by aesthete


I forgot
by DerKrieger



























RECOMMENDED DIARIES
								
RECOMMENDED DIARIES








I am a Republican
						by 
							Loren Heal
						


Palin Supporters Are Now Fair Game
						by 
							tomtflorida
						


I Am a Real Democrat, Therefore I Now Vote Republican
						by 
							colegrayson
						


Palin...
						by 
							J. Leg
						


Romney's "That's a nutty idea, Pierre" moment
						by 
							Freedoms Truth
						


The Tragedy of Red State
						by 
							abierubin
						


What the heck's up with Sarah Palin?
						by 
							azaeroprof
						


Is Sen. Sherrod Brown's (D-OH) newspaper reporter wife campaigning on the Plain Dealer's dime?
						by 
							Paula
						


Yep, "Social Conservatives" need to Sit Down and Shut Up. Maybe "FiCon Moderates" have a Solution Here...
						by 
							conservativecurmudgeon
						


Why Ronald Reagan would STRONGLY OPPOSE the candidacy of Ron Paul 
						by 
							mikeymike143
						

























REDHOT









                  Neil Stevens: "I, BARACK OBAMA, ... do hereby proclaim September 11, 2011, as National Grandparents Day" http://t.co/Zags6he #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh The Tenth Year. http://t.co/LKOJePq



                  Dan Spencer: And they should. NY Times: Democrats Fret Aloud Over Obama’s Re-election. http://t.co/f2a8fpO #2012 #tcot #RSRH



                  Jake Walker: Muslim protestors in London will “will make as much noise as possible” during 9/11 moment of silence. http://t.co/n6rw6NX #tcot #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh The great PBS/Obama/Lincoln kerfluffle. http://t.co/FMPXBJn



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh Post-surgery recovery: kind words, clear fluids, and drinking my enemies' pain. http://t.co/L0Dl2jV



                  Dan Spencer: North Korean electronic attack forced US military recon plane to make an emergency landing during US-ROK drill. http://t.co/MxvPWzV #RSRH



                  Jake Walker: Social issues and the race in NY-09. http://t.co/GZyk7PV Fascinating, though not unexpected. #tcot #rsrh



                  Jake Walker: Weprin (D) won't be voting for himself b/c he doesn't live in NY-9. Won't commit to moving there either. http://t.co/eSaxqKP #tcot #rsrh



                  Moe Lane: MoeLane: #rsrh Well, that was fun... http://t.co/UPTnjlb























GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL
								
GET REDSTATE BY E-MAIL












Delivered by FeedBurner






















MEMBER DIARIES
								
MEMBER DIARIES






9/11: We win by Finrod
Coulter v. Hoffa Jr., Obama: "Pass This Bill" - PCW Week in Review by politicalchampionshipwrestling
Muslim protestors in London will “will make as much noise as possible” during 9/11 moment of silence by Jake W
Obama's Five Pinocchios by alandlugash
One More Unmemorable Speech. by Skip MacLure
Palin: Run or Ride, She's America's Paul Revere by mollybwizer
Obama Promised Five Times to Cut Government Waste by littletboca
[monotone] Bad Mayor Emanuel.  Bad. by Moe Lane
Democrats Excel at Faking It by scipio62
Obama as Lincoln or Reagan? Hell No; Welcome Back, Carter! by The Rat
Obama's Job "Plan" Justifies S&P's Downgrade by scipio62
Obama Apologists Propel Mudslinging, Clash of Republicans During Reagan Debate by lithamcongal91
The Youth Vote by RightinSanFrancisco
The Green Inquisitors by philliesfan
Contagion Shows the Limits of the State by Dan Perrin
Ted Cruz: A 12-step plan to get America Working by Freedoms Truth
Ken Bucking the 2012 POTUS Election by silentcal2012
A Counter To The Definition of Insanity by colegrayson
Won't Get Fooled Again by tbrickert
Real Hope for a Change by drrobertowens
Rick Perry's Strategic Debate Blunders by kevinaw2
Obama, Republicans & Democrats Interested in "Cow Burps" by littletboca
Holocaust Survivor Irving Roth Comes to San Diego September 14th by lithamcongal91
Post by agconservative
Hillary's Secret Diary: Should I or Shouldn't Run? by Myra Adams
911, God, Texans, Great Depression II, and The Georgia Game by Mike gamecock DeVine
GOP Primary Rankings by chrysostom15 
Graph: Compare National Economy, Before and After Federal "Stimulus" by Benjamin Hodge
1/24/75, 9/11/01; Terrorism as seen by one American Family by Joe Connor
Walter Williams: Government must stick to its limited and legitimate role by Bob Weeks
IS OBAMA’S BLATANT PRO-LABOR STANCE RESPONSIBLE FOR UNION VIOLENCE? by The Rat
Where were you ten years ago? by yoyo
Say It Ain't So by gregorysstewart
1/24/75, 9/11/01; Terrorism as seen by one American Family by Joe Connor
Perry Edges out Romney in Republican Debate by libertygirlusa
Bob Turner In the Lead: Poll by proudgop
He Forgot The Peas by tbrickert
Déjà vu: Stimulus 2.0. by griffinelection
9/11 - Ten Years After by Nikitas3
The Apolitical Church and the Fall of America by R. Clayton Strang






















SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE
								
SUBSCRIBE TO REDSTATE







Front Page
Recommended Diaries
Member Diaries
Red Hot
Morning Briefing























RECENT JOBS
								
RECENT JOBS









View All Jobs


Post a Job



			Get your job site at SimplyHired.com


Jobs by Simply Hired














 RedState on Facebook











About
Contact
Contribute
Help




Eagle Publishing
Conservative Book Club
Conservative News, Books, & Views
Regnery Books



                Generated at: 12:06:16 pm UTC                    © 2011 Redstate, Inc., 2008 Eagle Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved.
                Legal, Copyright, and Terms of Service.
        
















