Frequently Asked Questions
Frequently Asked Questions

Why do I have to fill out this form?
Why do I keep receiving this form?
What are cookies and why do I need them to submit this information?
What about my privacy concerns?
What about demographic information collected from children under the age of 13?
Why do I only receive this demographic information collection form on certain areas of the site?
Is signing up for your e-mail newsletter required?
How do I close this form?

Why do I have to fill out this form?
We are collecting anonymous customer data to understand how we can better serve 
  our customers. This data will help us to develop new product and service offerings 
  and provide more value to our online community.
Additionally, we are an advertising supported site. This means that in order 
  for us to continue to offer access to the site free of charge to you, we need 
  to be able to better serve our advertisers. We are able to deliver more relevant advertisements from advertisers when they want to reach a particular zip code, age groups or gender.
Why do I keep receiving this form?
If you are continuing to receive the customer information form repeatedly, 
  the first thing to check is to make sure that your cookies are enabled. You 
  must also make sure that you don't delete your cookies on a regular basis. 
For more information on cookies: More detailed information about cookies can 
  be found on the Web. If you use Internet Explorer, visit the Microsoft 
  Web site.
What are cookies and why do I need them to submit this information?
A cookie is a small file we send to your Web browser. This is how we identify 
  you while you visit our Web site and determine whether you have already given 
  us information before. Cookies are stored on your computer and keep you from 
  having to re-enter information each time you visit our Web site. Cookies also 
  help us serve you unique content (personalized weather for your ZIP code, for 
  example) as well as advertising. More detailed information about cookies can 
  be found on the Web.
What about my privacy concerns?
Your privacy is important to us. We use the demographic information we collect 
  in accordance with the Terms of Service and Privacy Notice.
What about demographic information collected from children under the age of 13?
Because it is our policy not to knowingly collect information from users under 
  the age of 13, we do not collect or store any demographic information provided 
  by users who enter a birth date that indicates they are under the age of 13. 
  For more information about our children's privacy statement, please visit our 
  Privacy Notice.
Why do I only receive this demographic information collection form on certain 
  areas of the site?
Because this type of demographic data collection is new to our site, we want 
  an opportunity to review it on a smaller scale before implementing it on all 
  areas of our site. In the future, we may ask users to provide demographic information 
  on additional areas of the site.
Is signing up for your e-mail newsletters required?
Subscribing to an e-mail newsletter is optional. However, if you do sign up, 
  you will need to provide your e-mail address. Once you have subscribed to a newsletter, you can manage your subscription 
  at our e-newsletter management page.
How do I close this form?
In order to successfully move onto the page that you requested, you must complete 
  the form by filling out all of the fields and click on the 'Submit' button. 
  You will then proceed to your requested page.
