HIV positive African woman shut out of G8 | Mygripe an Thing








Mygripe an Thing Speak your mind! 



HomeAbout
About Us
Legal Notice
Mygripe an Thing live chat
Privacy
Search
Videos
 

RSS
Twitter
 














« The rise and fall of the Coke empire
First ‘secret law’ arrestee plans Charter challenge »



HIV positive African woman shut out of G8







Joyce Kamwana is an HIV-positive Malawi mother who had hoped to travel to Toronto and Huntsville to help convince global leaders to keep their financial commitments to Africa.
Malawi woman was to push G8 on AIDS, TB  and malaria funding, but unable to get visa in time
A Malawi mother scheduled to come to Canada as an African voice  pushing G8 leaders to support maternal health initiatives was shut out  of the summit due to a questionable visa mix-up.
Dutch and Canadian agencies were behind the effort to bring Joyce  Kamwana, an HIV-positive woman, to Toronto from Malawi so she could  personally urge developed nations to continue to bankroll the Global  Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and malaria. Created by G8 nations in 2002, the  Global Fund has programs in 144 countries, but is running out of cash.
However, the Canadian High Commission in South Africa blocked  Kamwana’s visa request, telling her it had grounds to believe she had  submitted a “fraudulent” letter of invitation in support of her  application.
Reached in Malawi’s capital city of Lilongwe, Kamwana said she is  shattered that she can’t attend the conference. Kamwana, 47, has lived  with HIV since 1988.
“Since they knew what was going on, my personal feeling is they are  trying to block us or shut us up,” she said. “Our efforts are being  hampered.”
The Global Fund has paid for Kamwana’s anti-retroviral medication  since 2004. Without the medication, Kamwana said she would not be alive.
“This is my lifeline,” she said. For 15 years, Kamwana did not take  any medication because she could not afford it. One of her daughters is  HIV-positive.
The Fund is currently lobbying summit leaders to support its push  for $17 billion for programs to buy mosquito nets to stop malaria and  drugs to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper met with Dr. Michel Kazatchkine, the head of the fund,  earlier this month.
But so far, there is no word on whether Canada will use its  influence to support the fund. Canada has previously donated $1 billion  under Liberal and Conservative governments.
“If the G8 does not continue to support the Global Fund, to me, I  feel it’s like a death sentence,” Kamwana said.
Kamwana said it will be the same for many Africans too poor to buy  their own medication. “They are committing us to die. How many millions  will die?”
Kamwana’s husband contracted HIV early in the epidemic in the  mid-1980s. He died in 1991, leaving her a widowed mother of two.
After a number of agencies got involved in the fight to bring  Kamwana to Toronto, she was eventually granted a visa on Friday, but it  came too late. She can’t get a flight and will miss the conference.
The High Commission in South Africa thought Kamwana’s papers were  fraudulent, said Nicci Stein, executive director of the Interagency  Coalition on AIDS Development based in Ottawa. The coalition is working  with the Netherlands-based International Civil Society Group, which  handles communications for the Global Fund.
Clearly the High Commission in Pretoria “jumped to conclusions”  that the letters of support for Kamwana’s visa application were  fraudulent, Stein said.
“Apparently they said they tried to call us and our lines were  disconnected,” Stein said. “But somebody must have called the wrong  number.”
Canadian authorities have been “inefficient and problematic”  despite involvement from the coalition, the Global Fund and the Dutch  ICSS group, said Maria Bordallo Gil, an international campaign officer  with ICSS, in an email to the Star.  “I seriously don’t have any idea as to why this happened,” Bordallo  Gil said.
Kamwana was supposed to be the female ambassador for the “Here I  Am” campaign created by ICSS to support the Global Fund. The male  ambassador, Michael Gwaba from Zambia, was also unable to get his paper  work approved in time to come to Toronto, she added.
Federal immigration authorities said they could not immediately  comment on Kamwana’s case for privacy reasons. In a letter to Kamwana  dated June 18, the high commission in Pretoria said it thought she  submitted a “fraudulent letter” for a temporary resident visa. “More  specifically, the letter from the International Civil Society Support  has been verified as not being genuine,” the Canadian letter stated.
But all the High Commission in South Africa needed to do was place a  couple of phone calls and the mess could have been ironed out, Stein  said.
“It would have taken five or 10 minutes to verify ICAD is an  official organization,” she said. “The level of incompetence or sheer  neglect that was displayed here is staggering.”

Malawi is a southern African nation with a high prevalence of  HIV/AIDS and a low life expectancy. Before the Global Fund began work in  Malawi, 10 people every hour died from AIDS. That figure has been  reduced to one an hour.


 

TwitterDiggFacebookDeliciousStumbleUpon


                      This entry was posted by Sandrea on June 26, 2010 at 8:15 am, and is filed under Health. Follow any responses to this post through RSS 2.0.You can leave a response or trackback from your own site.                    



Print







         Comments (0)       

Related Posts









 




 

 

 









CAPTCHA Code *
 







Type your comment




               You may use these HTML tags: <a> <abbr> <acronym> <b> <blockquote> <cite> <code> <del> <em> <i> <q> <strike> <strong> 















 


Comment Feed for this Post




Didn't find any related posts :(












 

« MayJune 2010
Jul »
M
T
W
T
F
S
S  123456


78910111213


14151617181920


21222324252627


282930
 


 
Barefoot Tess





Teva Footware


Argos Store


Thompson holiday
.

Discount School Supply


DNA Footware


Sandals Holiday


 














 Powered by WordPress and Mystique theme by digitalnature | RSS Feeds
 















Go to Top






