lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » February






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Sunday, February 28, 2010
Lawson Wood

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:17 pm 
 


UK painter, illustrator and designer Lawson Wood found a rather unique niche for himself amid the great turn of the 20th Century illustrators by going ape.
Though he portrayed many other subjects, and even had other comic illustration series with particular themes, notably police officers and prehistoric scenes, it was his comic illustrations of apes and monkeys, rendered as if they were Leyendecker models in all their finery, that made his reputation.
he used his apes in a variety of situations, even painting ape caricatures of Hitler, Stalin and the Japanese Emperor during World War II.
His own character, the aged Gran’pop, appeared several times on the cover of Collier’s and was under consideration for an animated cartoon before war broke out.
ASIFA-Hollywood Animation Archive has a great selection of Wood covers, click on the in-page images for larger versions.


Link: Lawson Wood on ASIFA-Hollywood Animation Archive
BPIB
Small Room
Chris Beetles
Scary Terry's World
The Find
Baron Fine Art
Children's / FAntasy illustration
Old Post Cards
World Gallery
Art.com
Artnet
Bio on The Wee Web
Freemasonry
eBay.co.uk

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, February 27, 2010
Errol Le Cain

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:22 am 
 


British animator and illustrator Errol Le Cain was a member of Richard William’s animation studio in the 1960′s when they were producing the terrific and influential animated opening credits for films like A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum and Casino Royale (the original, weird one). He also worked on William’s The Thief and the Cobbler.
While he was working with William’s studio, Le Cain began to illustrate children’s books, developing a colorful style lush with patterns, textural design elements and Art Nouveau touches. In many ways his style seems like a continuation of the traditions of the European Golden Age illustrators (see the links in my recent post on Ivan Bilibin) without feeling like an emulation of any of them.
Le Cain went on to do extensive animation work for the BBC, continuing to create illustrations for children’s books into the years before his death in 1989.
Most of his books are out of print, but if you look around you can find them used.
There is a site devoted to his illustration work, The Illustrated Work of Errol Le Cain maintained by Tania Covo. Though it doesn’t have a gallery, per se, it has a list of his published work and the page for each title features two of his illustrations from that book.


Link: http://errollecain.com
Sleeping Beauty illustrations on Masha Dutoit's blog
Splog, and here, and here
A Blog of Bosh
Children's/Fantasy Illustrations
Brown Blog Films
Artnet
The Thief and the Cobbler (YouTube)
Bio on Wikiedia

Posted in:  Illustration   |   3 Comments »


Friday, February 26, 2010
Paul Delaroche

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:13 am 
 


Hippolyte (Paul) Delaroche was a French academic painter who helped set the standards for late 19th Century history painting. 
Though denigrated in subsequent times (and at the time by upstarts like the Impressionists), history painting was the core of mainstream academic painting, then the artistic establishment; and Delaroche, along with Eugéne Delacroix and Théodore Géricault, was among its chief proponents.
Delaroche was a student of Antoine-Jean Gros, and a teacher of many notable artists, including Charles-François Daubigny and Jean-Léon Gérôme.
His highly refined and smoothly rendered history paintings, often large scale tableaux with life-size figures, were dramatic portrayals of scenes from both distant times and recent events.
Very popular in his day, his paintings represented what many find appealing, and others find objectionable, about academic art — superb draftsmanship and flawless technique, but, despite their drama, little investment of emotion or passion on the part of the artist.
Delaroche is known for his monumental work, 88 feet (27 metres) long, around the inside curve of a wall of the hemicycle (circular chamber) of the award theatre of the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris (image above, top and middle). The painting was a commission from the architect of the school and portrays 75 great artists from various points in time, focused on three thrones on which the creators of the Parthenon sit, flanked by muses, representing their chosen arts of architecture, sculpture and painting.
The Execution of Lady Jane Grey (images above, third down and detail, bottom), was unusual and caused great interest when it debuted. It was essentially the start of a new genre of painting, combining the refined painting technique exemplified by Ingres with the drama of history painters like Delacroix. It was an event from English history portrayed, in striking scale and realism, by a French painter. It shows the moments just before the beheading of Lady Jane Grey, who, at the age of 16, was Queen of England for only 9 days before being deposed and later executed by her half-sister Mary.
Other paintings of similar subjects, by Delaroche and other French history painters, would follow. These history paintings, particularly involving subjects like the wresting of crowns from one hand to another, along with such juicy subjects as beheadings (you know — entertainment), would prove very popular with the French audience, who saw many parallels to their own history of clashing monarchs.
This painting, perhaps Delaroche’s most famous, and several notable works on loan, are part of an exhibition at the National Gallery in London, Painting History: Delaroche and Lady Jane Grey, that is on display until 23 May, 2010.
There is a nice big zoomable version of the painting here as part of the online material for the exhibition (detail above, bottom); be sure to use the “expand” button (rectangle with 4 arrows) to make the zoomable image full screen.


Link: Painting History: Delaroche and Lady Jane Grey, National Gallery, London, to 23 MAY, 2010
Web Gallery of Art
Wikimedia Commons
Louvre
ArtMagick
Art Renewal
Ciudad de la pintura
Hermitage
Athenaeum
CGFA
Hunt For
Bio and images on Wikipedia
The Execution of Lady Jane Grey (Wikipedia article)
Artcyclopedia (museum links and resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, February 25, 2010
10 Surreal Animated Short Films on Listicles

Posted by Charley Parker at 5:47 pm 
 


Listicles, part of The L Magazine from New York, is a blog for which every post is a list of some kind, has posted an interesting list of 10 Surreal Animated Short Films.
These are culled from various sources (including the Goeblins Annecy animations) and are a mix of hand drawn and CGI animation. 
All of them are interesting, and collectively make for a good bit of amusement and fascination. 
(Images above: “Galileo” by Avrillon Ghislain, “The Lady and the Reaper” by Javier Recio Garcia, Music Video for “Where Dream &AMP; Day Collide” by Madder Mortem, directed by Christian Ruud and Kim Holm, “Garuda” by Nicolas Athane, Meryl Frack, Alexis Liddell, Andres Salaff and Maïlys Vallade)


Link: 10 Surreal Animated Short Films on Listicles

Posted in:  3d CGI,Animation   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, February 24, 2010
Glenn Dean

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:48 am 
 


California born, new Mexico based artist Glenn Dean finds endless variety in the rocks, hills, canyons, bluffs and mountains of the American West.
Sometimes his work can be more intimate, with scenes of small arroyos, canyons and adobe structures, and he occasionally paints views of the California coast, but most often portrays the monumental geologic structures of the western part of the continent. 
His site is, in fact, themed Landscapes of The West. Unfortunately, it’s one of those stock FineArtStudioOnline stock sites, in which you must view the larger images in a little pop-up window, the largest of which is still somewhat small. You can see some larger inmages, in which Dean’s brushwork and color variations are more apparent, on the Brandon Michael Fine Art gallery (though some items are not linked to larger versions).
Dean cites as inspiration noted painters of the America West like Edgar Payne and Maynard Dixon. You can also see the influence of California Impressionists like Hanson Puthuff and Granville Redmond in his bright but atmospherically softened palette. 
Dean also carries forward the spiritual/philosophical component of some of the early California painters, in which the landscape is seen as an expression of the spiritual within the material.
He is essentially a self-taught artist. His work has been featured in a number of magazines like Southwest Art, Art of the West and American Artist.
Dean paints en plein air when possible, finishing larger works in the studio.


Link: http://landscapesofthewest.com
Brandon Michael Fine Art gallery, with bio
Altamira Fine Art

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Tuesday, February 23, 2010
Ryan Wood

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:43 pm 
 


Ryan Wood set out originally to pursue a career in illustration, but found his calling as concept artist in the video game industry, and relegates illustration work to the side. He is currently working for Avalance Software, a game development studio that was acquired by Disney.
Though he does maintain a presence on the Shannon Associates artists representatives site, his blog, woodyart, includes some illustration work but seems largely devoted to his personal projects, with lots of whimsical caricatures, posters, and cartoon-like figures and faces rendered in a relatively finished digital painting style. 
His detailed rendering gives his springy, exaggerated characters a fun three-dimensional quality, set off by nicely chosen colors and lots of tactile textures, as in his period piece caricature of baseball legend Honus Wagner (above, top). 
Wood teaches as part of the Schoolism online art classes, led by Creative Director Bobby Chiu. 
There is an older tutorial based on one of Wood’s images created several years ago, that was used as an example by Corel as what was possible in their Painter 6 digital painting software (the current version of Painter is XI).
There is an interview with Wood on the Character Design Blog. Wood is also a contributor to the group Avalanche Software Blog.


Link: http://woodyart.blogspot.com
Portfolio on Shannon Associates
Interview on Character Design Blog
painter 6 tutorial
Avalanche Software Blog

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   2 Comments »



The Color Wheel on Gurney Journey

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:47 pm 
 


Painter and illustrator James Gurney, who I recently profiled here, is currently writing a series of fascinating posts on his blog, Gurney Journey, about The Color Wheel. 
In them he is exploring questions that are not raised often enough, including questioning the concept of exactly what is a primary color, and how might primary colors be interpreted differently; not just in different color spaces, additive and subtractive, but even within the familiar paradigms of modern color theory and practice. 
The colors that are considered primaries, as he points out, are not set in stone. 
The series, of which there are three installments to date, is likely part of the material Gurney is producing for his upcoming book, Color & Light. 
I don’t know how many posts there will be in this series, but you may find that it encourages you to think about color and color mixing a little differently. 
(You may find it useful to supplement your reading with my post on the History of the Color Wheel.)


Link: http://gurneyjourney.blogspot.com/
The Color Wheel, Part 1
The Color Wheel, Part 2
The Color Wheel, Part 3
My post on the History of the Color Wheel
My recent post on Dinotopia: The Art of James Gurney

Posted in:  Color,Tools and Techniques,Vision and Optics   |   Comments »


Monday, February 22, 2010
Artist Monograms and Signatures

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:42 pm 
 


An important but often overlooked aspect of creating a finished painting or drawing is the application of a signature by the artist.
Simultaneously claiming authorship and declaring the work finished, signatures are a source of pride to some artists, and a necessary chore to others.
Prized by collectors, to whom attribution is often more important than the actual character of the work when considering art as a commodity, signatures are both boon and bane to those who must establish attribution of historical works, and have to deal with illegible, confusing and often forged signatures and marks. 
Throughout history artists have signed their work in any number of ways, often with cryptic marks or monograms, as much a design element as a recognizable mark of the artist’s name.
I’m often admired the monograms of artists like Albrecht Durer (above, bottom left) and Howard Pyle (bottom right), which seem “right” and are pleasing designs in themselves.
There is a nice feature on the ArtArchive on Artist Monograms, and Artist Signatures (I’ve had to pop these out of context to link to them because the site is in frames for some unknown reason.)
Viewing is slightly awkward, in that the marks and signatures are arranged on sheets in groups, on a separate page from the list of names, and associated by number. Click on the linked name ranges  to open the pages with the graphics (maybe use the contextual menu in your browser to open them in a separate window so you can have them side by side).
The images at top show a page monograms and one of signatures from the ArtArchive site.
There is also another site devoted to Artist Signatures that is mostly of interest to serious collectors who are willing to pay a fee for full access. For casual browsers, the signatures section is pointless, but the monograms section can be browsed by first letter just to see some of the variety (particularly if you’re trying to design your own artist’s monogram). Listings of the artist name associated with the monograms, however, are behind the paywall. 
The Artist Signatures site is by John Castagno, author of  several of the most widely recognized authoritative books on the subject, beginning with Artists’ Monograms and Indiscernible Signatures, and continuing with a series (all of which are on the expensive side, but presumably valuable for collectors and dealers).


Link: ArtArchive Monograms
ArtArchive Signatures
Monograms on John Castagno's Artist Signatures
Essay on artist signatures on ArtLex

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »



Stephen Scott Young

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:28 am 
 


Stephen Scott Young is a renowned contemporary watercolorist and etcher whose works are in major collections and museums. 
Young was born in Hawaii, moved to Florida with his family at the age of 14, and studied printmaking at the Ringling School of Art in Sarasota. His watercolor technique, which frequently makes use of drybrush, is self-taught, and based on his admiration for artists like Winslow Homer, Andrew Wyeth and Thomas Eakins.
Young lives part time in Florida and part time in the Bahama Islands, where he finds subjects for many of his well known paintings of children. This was also a place where Homer came to paint, and Young has even done compositions that are essentially recreations of Homer paintings.
Whether at play, moody and contemplative, or even formally posed, his images of children seem to see past the surface into a moment in their lives. 
The refined technique and precise draftsmanship applied to his subjects are often set off against loosely suggested backgrounds, rendered together in a muted palette with accents of brighter color.
Young also works in etching, drypoint and silverpoint drawing.
[Via Artist Daily]


Link: Adelson Galleries
Morris & Whiteside Gallery
Artist Daily
John H. Surovek Gallery, with etchings
Harbor Island Galleries
Shuptrine's
Leslie Levy Fine Art (no longer active)
Artnet
Askart
Albrecht-Kemper Museum of Art
Cleveland Museum of Art
Greenville County Museum of Art
Kemper Museum
Artcyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Prints and Printmaking,Watercolor and Gouache   |   8 Comments »


Sunday, February 21, 2010
Ivan Bilibin (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:37 pm 
 


Every once in a while, I like to check back on artists I’ve written about a few years ago and see what new resources for their work have appeared on the constantly expanding internet since I last wrote about them.
I took a look this morning at sources for Ivan Bilibin, a terrific Russian illustrator that I discovered by accident while walking through the Metropolitan Museum of art in 2006.
Ivan Yakovlevich Bilibin was active during a period generally known as the Golden Age of Illustration, roughly contemporary with great English and European illustrators like Arthur Rackham, Edmund Dulac, Kay Neilsen, Gustav Tenggren, John Bauer and Walter Crane. 
With the possible exception of Crane and Russian Illustrator Gennady Spirin, Bilibin’s influences seem to have come more from Russian folk art than from other illustrators; along with elements from Art Nouveau and Renaissance art.
I was delighted to find that there are indeed new resources for Bilibin’s art since I last wrote about him, including multi-image galleries on Wikimedia Commons, Wikipedia and Cascadia Graphics.
They include not only more images of his colorful illustrations, but, as in the image above, middle, examples of some of his designs for stage sets (also here and here).
There is at least one collection of stories with Bilibin’s illustrations in print and readily available, Russian Fairy Tales (Everyman’s Library Children’s Classics). You may be able to find others used.


Link: Wikimedia Commons
Wikipedia
Cascadia Graphics
Fantasy Gallery
Art Browser
SurLaLane Fairy Tales (colors a bit faded)
Bio with images on BPIB
Russian Paintings
Auburn.edu
Art.com
Textualities
Jane Heinrichs
Liza's World
Artcyclopedia
My previous post on Ivan Bilibin

Posted in:  Illustration   |   3 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






