Animals In Disaster Digest




Translate










No one logged in. Log in





HomeCurrent Responses Volunteer ToolBox Blogs NewsAnimals In Disaster About Us Guest BookCalendarWorld PeaceDonationsHR TalkHR Top PicksHR Map NewsMessage from FoundersLeadershipFriendsAnnual ReportFAQContact UsEvent DiaryBrazilMinot USANebraska USAHurricane IreneWildfiresUS FloodsSign-upSign-InAbout Our VolunteersForumsMap DirectoryHR VideoMobile AppsAnimals In Disaster DigestRedcrossdog_BlogMinot Flood 2011 - Animals in Disaster










Tweet






Animals In Disaster Digest


 
 The 9-11 Heroes with Four Legs 
 Toni McNulty - Sunday, September 11, 2011 
 
 
 



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Interview with All Paws Pet Talk on August 24, 2011 
 Toni McNulty - Tuesday, September 06, 2011 
 As Hurricane Irene was beginning to strike the East Coast of the U.S., we went on the air with Cynthia Segal of All Paws Pet Talk to discuss our mission of disaster preparedness for pets.




Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Disaster Preparedness and Pets 
 Toni McNulty - Sunday, September 04, 2011 
 

Want to learn how to prepare for your animals in less than five minutes? Watch the great video below from AVMA.

 
 



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Remember and Prepare 
 Toni McNulty - Friday, September 02, 2011 
 NOW, THEREFORE, I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2011 as National Preparedness Month.  I encourage all Americans to recognize the importance of preparedness and observe this month by working together to enhance our national security, resilience, and readiness.

With those words, the President officially recognized National Preparedness Month. We certainly have plenty of evidence to show our need for preparedness. Earthquakes, floods, tornadoes, drought, wildfires, gas line explosions, house fires -- throughout the United States, from north, south, east, west and everything in between, we have seen one disaster after another this year.

Thousands of families have found themselves suddenly having to leave their homes and spend days in public shelters or with relatives or in other lodging -- inconvenienced in big and small ways, routines disrupted, homes lost, loved ones lost. If you were not affected directly, you probably know someone who was -- a neighbor, a co-worker, a Facebook friend, a Twitter follower.

As we show our gratitude for the many dedicated public and nonprofit organizations who have worked tirelessly to assist disaster victims, we also recognize our own need to improve our ability to take care of ourselves when disaster strikes. So let's get to it.

PREPARE AT HOME

Do you have an emergency plan for your family and pets? How about an emergency kit? Is it adequate to see you through at least three days? How about two weeks? If not, go to Ready.gov and get started. If you can't build your kit all at once, start with the basics and add items as you're able. Remember that in an emergency, it takes time for official responders to get to everyone. In a large disaster, there simply are not enough responders to help everyone at once. It's up to you to take care of yourself and your family until official help arrives. If your family knows the basics of emergency preparedness and has a well-supplied kit, they will be
more likely to remain calm and take the necessary actions to stay safe.

PREPARE IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD

Learn where the dangers are in your neighborhood. Where is it likely to flood first? What is the best evacuation route? Who are your most vulnerable neighbors ... the elderly, the homebound ...those who may need your help to survive? Learn what kind of preparedness is being taught in your child's school. Will they know what to do if an emergency strikes while they're in class? 

PREPARE IN YOUR TOWN

Learn about your town's emergency management plan. Do they have one? Check to see if they have a website. Make a list of emergency phone numbers. Is there a Citizens Corps, a CERT Team, a Disaster Animal Response Team, a Search and Rescue Team, an American Red Cross branch? How many people are involved in them? You may be surprised to learn there aren't as many as you thought. You may want to volunteer.

Have you been through a disaster this year? We welcome your comments, and any tips you learned as you went through it.

 






Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Hurricane Irene 2011 
 Toni McNulty - Friday, August 26, 2011 
 UPDATE - AUGUST 27, 2011

MARYLAND: Rockville residents seeking shelter for their pets can drop them off in cages at
the Bauer Drive Community Center at 14625 Bauer Dr. That
facility opens at 4 p.m., according to county spokeswoman Esther
Bowring.

MASSACHUSETTS: Northampton Pet-friendly shelter at Smith Vocational/Agriculture High School, Locust Street opens 5 PM Sat.

NEW JERSEY:
Pets welcome at all evacuation shelters across the state, per Gov. Christie. Bring your own pet supplies.

Notice to Millburn-Short Hills Residents: Millburn High School will be open as a reception center for people
needing shelter, but officials stress that it is meant only for people
with “no other place to go.” Evacuees will be taken via school bus to a regional American Red Cross shelter in Morris County. Emergency Management officials also want to make it clear that no pets,
other than service animals will be allowed and people need to make other
arrangements for their animals. Full story.

Bergen County: All regional shelters will be petfriendly - dogs and cats only.

Freehold Township: Monmouth County Youth Detention Center, 119 Dutch Lane has been converted into a temporary animal and  homeless shelter in advance of Hurricane Irene.

Ocean County: Questions about moving livestock? Contact Lt. James Manley at OEM. Phone: 732-341-3451.

NEW YORK: Pet-friendly shelter in the Woodland building at the Suffolk Community College Eastern Campus.

Members of the ASPCA’s Field Investigations and Response Team are
working alongside the New York City Office of Emergency Management (OEM)
and the OEM’s Animal Planning Task Force to assist with the city’s
disaster relief efforts. Full Article

NORTH CAROLINA: Horse shelters: Sen. Bob Martin Eastern Agricultural Center in Williamston and Hunt Horse Complex in Raleigh.

Pitt County: Helen's Grooming World, 3198 E. 10th St., Phone: 378-5649 /758-6333 taking evacuated pets.

PENNSYLVANIA: Berks County Animal Rescue League and Humane Society will shelter pets for evacuees.

RHODE ISLAND: Tiverton woman offers shelter for pets for people who evacuate.

VERMONT: The Vermont Agriculture Agency advises livestock and pet owners to take storm precautions.

UPDATE - AUGUST 26, 2011

DELAWARE: State Veterinarian puts livestock and small flock owners on alert. 

MAINE:
If it is decided to open shelters, the Lewiston Armory will be opened and pet-friendly.

MARYLAND: Talbot County Humane will offer a pet shelter.

NEW JERSEY: Cape May County Emergency Management Coordinator "urged pet owners to bring their animals, including those heading to shelters. He said it is important in light of the number of people who remained during Hurricane Katrina when it struck Louisiana. Those who are concerned about their pets but can’t take them along can drop them off at the Cape May County Airport on Breakwater Road in Lower Township, where arrangements for their care can be made." Full story

Toms River: The shelter at High School North will open Friday at 8 a.m., and will be pet-friendly.

Monmouth County: A pet shelter will be set up at Brookdale Community College in the Lincroft section of Middletown.

Westwood-Washington Township: The borough will open a shelter at the Westwood Community Center if needed, but pet food will not be available. Bring pet food, leashes and carriers for pets if you evacuate.

NEW YORK:

New York City: Pets are not allowed in city shelters. Service animals are allowed. If pet owners are required to leave their homes in an emergency, the city advises owners to arrange for family or friends outside the danger area to shelter their pet. Only “legal pets with proper identification” will be admitted into city shelters with their owners, the city says on its website. Read "Ready New York for Pets"

Southampton News: Experts Urge Residents to Remember Pets During Hurricane.
Suffolk County - Call Fire Rescue Emergency Service and listen to the radio for pet-friendly shelters.

Riverhead: The county will most likely open a shelter in Yaphank that will accept both people and pets.

NORTH CAROLINA:

Pamlico County- A shelter there will open Friday at 1 p.m. at Pamlico County Community College and will be pet friendly.

Pet-friendly shelters open Friday in New Hanover County, Brunswick County, and Pender County.

New Hanover County, Opening 6 p.m. Friday, Noble Middle School, 6520 Market Street, Wilmington (pet-friendly shelter)
Brunswick County: West Brunswick High School, 550 Whiteville Road, Shallotte (pet-friendly shelter)
Pets will be accepted at any shelter. However, West Brunswick HS is the only co-location shelter where pets will be sheltered in the same building as their owners. Pets taken to North or South High Schools will be transported to another location for sheltering. Full story

Guilford County Animal Shelter waiting to hear whether they will need to send their large trailer to transport or treat animals.

Camp LeJeune: Onslow County Animal response Teams manage a pet shelter co-located with a Red Cross shelter at Jacksonville Commons Middle School. Dogs, cats and caged birds are accepted as long as animals are accompanied by their owners and those owners stay in the adjacent emergency shelter.

RHODE ISLAND:

An emergency shelter for residents with animals will also be set up at the Warren Recreation Center, or the old Mary V. Quirk building at 790 Main Street.  Residents should be aware that anyone bringing an animal must provide proof of vaccinations. Residents are advised that they should bring their own blankets, pillows, and essential hurricane supply kit items. Emergency shelters will be staffed beginning at 6:00pm Sunday evening.

VIRGINIA:

Chesapeake will open four shelters Friday at 7 p.m. at Oscar Smith High School, Hickory Middle School, Western Branch High School and Thurgood Marshall Elementary School. A pet shelter will be available at River Crest Community Center, 1001 River Walk Pkwy., and pet owners can stay at Oscar Smith High. Pet owners must provide food and bedding for their pet. A cage/crate and vaccination information should also be provided but are not required.

Hampton: "If shelters are opened, Bethel High School would be the first shelter. We would be prepared to allow residents who are sheltered there to bring pets. Residents should bring cages or crates, if possible, as well as pet food, medications and anything else the animals might require." Residents can find out about shelters close to them by calling 211.

UPDATE - August 25, 2011

FACEBOOK PAGE TO CONNECT EVACUEES WHO NEED SOMEONE TO CARE FOR THEIR PETS. 

DELAWARE: If disaster strikes, you can bring your pet with you to emergency shelter. 

FLORIDA:
Veterinarians begin preparations for Hurricane Irene. Full story
SOUTH CAROLINA:
North Charleston, SC - Storm shelter has rules on pets

NORTH CAROLINA:
The Pitt County, NC Animal Shelter says it can house pets if owners are forced to evacuate. Pets must have rabies tags and proof of immunizations, and an identification tag on the pet's collar if possible. The shelter also suggests bringing clearly labeled collars, leashes, crates and carriers. If the animal is on a special diet they ask owners to provide the food. In order for pets to have the comforts of home, they recommend leaving blankets, towels or other bedding. Source

WHAT IS SART?
State Animal Response Teams (SART) are interagency state organizations dedicated to preparing, planning,
responding and recovering during animal emergencies in the United States. Check out the NC SART here.


FIRST REPORTS - August 24, 2011
As Hurricane Irene approaches the Bahamas and heads toward the U.S. East Coast, we begin our reporting of information to help those with animals in the impacted areas keep them as safe as possible. We encourage you to help us add to these resources. If you hear of any pet-friendly evacuation shelters, official notices, or other helpful information, please click on "Comments" below and post it.

If you live in a hurricane-prone area, and have not yet prepared your family and your animals, we hope you will do it today.

Mandatory Evacuation of Ocracoke Island as Irene Approaches

TO FIND OUT IF THERE IS A PET FRIENDLY SHELTER IN YOUR AREA, CALL YOUR COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE OR LOCAL ANIMAL SHELTER. Some are listed at this website.

 For those in FLORIDA, a pet-friendly shelter guide.

For those in SOUTH CAROLINA - Emergency pet shelter at N. Charleston Coliseum.

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT WEBSITES FOR STATES IN HURRICANE IRENE'S CURRENT PATH:


FLORIDA

GEORGIA

SOUTH CAROLINA

NORTH CAROLINA

VIRGINIA





Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Are Your Pets Hurricane-Ready? 
 Toni McNulty - Monday, August 22, 2011 
 Hurricane Checklist for Pets



Water: At least a three-day supply for each pet – one gallon a day for a dog, one or more cups a day for a cat.

 

Food: At least a three-day supply for each pet.


Medications: Three-day supply if your pet needs them.


Food and water bowls and dish soap for cleaning.


Collars and/or harnesses with ID tags, contact information attached.


Leashes. Note: Do not leave animals outside during a hurricane. Use a leash when taking them out for “bathroom” duty. Pets sense danger and may try to run.


A crate/carrier large enough for pet to stand and turn around. Mark the crate with a visible ID and contact information in case you must go to a shelter.


A muzzle in case pet is injured or frightened. Pets that are stressed or in pain may bite.


Blankets for comfort and warmth.


Towels and paper towels for cleanup.


Favorite toy


Treats and/or rawhide to chew on. It will help relieve stress.


First Aid supplies. See this list from AVMA.


Pet medical records, immunizations, your contact information and contact information for someone living outside the affected area. In case something happens to you, they will be contacted. Also, a photo of you and your pet. This will help you reclaim your pet if it gets lost and ends up in a shelter. Place all of this in a waterproof zipper bag or container. If you have to take your pet to an emergency shelter, securely attach this information to your pet’s crate.

Make a list of names and phone numbers of pet-friendly hotels outside the impacted area. Be ready to call for reservations as soon as you know you must evacuate. Rooms fill up fast. A couple of website resources are petswelcome.com and bringfido.com. There are many more.

This list covers the basics. For more information about preparing your family, including your pets, for a hurricane, visit Ready.gov.
 On Twitter, follow @redcrossdog for more safety tips and @disasteranimals for current information about emerging disaster events. We’re also on Facebook.


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Book Review: Guide to Pet Safety 
 Toni McNulty - Friday, August 19, 2011 
 One look at the glossy yellow and red cover of Guide to Pet Safety and you know it means business. On first glance, its slim size made me wonder, though, how comprehensive it would be. All it took was reading the extensive Table of Contents and I knew I was looking at a valuable resource. Its seventeen short chapters are chock-full of vital information for any responsible pet owner.

Want a step-by-step guide on making your own animal evacuation kit and plan? It's in there. Whether you have a cat or dog, a ferret or fish or bird, a snake or a frog, or horses and livestock, Guide to Pet Safety will help you prepare and keep them safe during an emergency.

In addition to disaster and emergency preparation, it also contains extensive first aid information, from making a first aid kit to transporting an injured animal, from recognizing distress in an animal to protecting them through all seasons and holidays. There's even an illustrated section on poisonous plants.

Aside from the information, there are other features I particularly like. One is the size - 8-1/2" x 11." The thinness that deceived me in the beginning makes this book easy to store in your evacuation kit or on a shelf as a ready reference. The other is the sideways "headers" on key sections that allow the reader to quickly find information by flipping the pages without opening the book completely. It would be nice if this book were spiral bound so it could lay flat when open, but that's a minor detail compared to the overall value of this great guide.

The author, Cameron R. White-Thumwood, spent years compiling the information and consulted many experts to ensure that the book contains solid and user-friendly information. It has been endorsed by veterinarians and emergency response officials. Guide to Pet Safety is available at Amazon.com in both paperback and Kindle formats. You also can contact PetAlert.com for more information.

Full Disclosure: We were provided a copy of "Guide to Pet Safety" at no charge for the purpose of this review. No one from Humanity Road or Animals in Disaster has received or will receive any monetary compensation for writing this review, nor were the opinions expressed influenced by the author or anyone else involved with the book.


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Tracy Underwood Wins "Get Me Into BarkWorld" Contest! 
 Toni McNulty - Monday, August 15, 2011 
 We are pleased to announce that


Tracy Underwood, of Decatur, Georgia, is the sole winner of our "GET ME INTO BARKWORLD!" Contest. Tracy recently started blogging about pets, so we know she will enjoy meeting other bloggers at the Expo! Her latest blog post is here. While Tracy may be new to blogging, she is no stranger to pets! Be sure to check out the "About" page on her blog.

There were no other qualifying entries in the contest, so we still have THREE BarkWorld Expo tickets to give away. We will announce later in the week how we plan to do this. Stay tuned!


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Take a Chance 
 Toni McNulty - Friday, August 05, 2011 
 Thanks to Christine Thompson for this heart-warming Guest Post!





Take A Chance


The dog days of summer are bittersweet for me.  Summer is my favorite season with swimming and boating and all of the summertime activities.  But the dog days of summer herald the end of summertime swimming and picnics and the flowers begin to lose their bloom as the summer grasses lose their green.  This ending of a season sometimes reminds me of losing a well loved pet.
In tribute to the dog days of summer and to how dogs make a difference in the lives of so many, I would like to lift up the story of a special dog and his special owner.
Chance made his home with a wonderful computer geek who has a passion for his country and is a humanitarian at heart.  Chance helped him keep balance in his life and to share play time.  Chance didn’t think about where the snow came from or if the snow would come again next year, he just played in it and had fun, teaching his owner that sometimes, we must enjoy living in the moment.
Those who have never had a pet may not understand how a small animal (or sometimes a large animal) can help bring a sense of peace and balance in our very hectic lives.  
There are so many animals just waiting for a Chance to share their love with the world.  I hope you take a Chance and open your heart to a rescue animal.  You will not be sorry that you did.
---- Read the story of Chance the SuperDog
 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Get Me Into BarkWorld Expo! 
 Toni McNulty - Saturday, July 30, 2011 
 ANNOUNCING OUR “GET ME INTO BARKWORLD™ EXPO” CONTEST!
We’re going to the BarkWorld™ Expo as a sponsor and a speaker on September 29 – October 1, 2011 and would love to meet you there! We would like to help FOUR of you get in the door FREE, so put on your creative writing thinking caps and tell us why YOU should be selected!
Send us an email with your story. Demonstrate in 500 words or less why we should get you into BARKWORLD™ EXPO. Be creative!
You can enter starting Monday, August 1, 2011. The contest ends August 12, 2011. Winners will be announced on Monday, August 15, 2011. 
Please read our complete contest rules below for all the details before you enter. Entries that don't comply with the rules will be disqualified. 




“GET ME INTO BARKWORLD™ EXPO" CONTEST

OFFICIAL RULES
1. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. A donation to HUMANITY ROAD, INC. or any of its clusters (i.e. RedCrossDog or Animals in Disaster) will not improve the chance of winning. Void where prohibited. Subject to all federal, state, and local laws. Participation requires Internet access.
2. CAN I PARTICIPATE? To participate in HUMANITY ROAD, INC.'s "GET ME INTO BARKWORLD™ EXPO" CONTEST you must: 
- Be 18 years of age or older. 
- Be a legal resident of the 50 United States or the District of Columbia. 
- Employees and volunteers of HUMANITY ROAD, INC. and HUMANITYROAD.ORG, its Board of Directors and the immediate family members (parents, siblings, children and spouse) and/or those living in the same household (whether or not related) of each are not eligible to win. 
3. CONTEST PERIOD. HUMANITY ROAD, INC.'s "GET ME INTO BARKWORLD™ EXPO" Contest will accept entries by email only, starting at or about 12:00:01 AM (EST) MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2011 and ending at 11:59:59 PM (EST) FRIDAY, AUGUST 12, 2011 (The "Contest Period"). All entries must be received by 11:59:59 PM (EST) FRIDAY, AUGUST 12, 2011. Proof that you entered your form and submission does not constitute proof or evidence that an entry was actually received within the Contest Period. Participants assume all risk of lost, late, misdirected, incomplete or illegible entries. All entries submitted become the sole property of the Sponsor and will not be acknowledged or returned. 
WINNERS WILL BE NOTIFIED AND ANNOUNCED ON MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2011. 
4. HOW DO I ENTER? One entry per person. Submitting an entry constitutes agreeing to the terms of these Official Rules and all decisions of Sponsor and/or its designee, which are final and binding in all respects. Sponsor is not responsible for incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete entry of information or for entries which are garbled, damaged, incompletely received, otherwise defective or lost due to any reason, all of which will be voided. Each submission of an Entry Piece shall constitute an entry ("Entry").
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS. Your email requires: first and last name, age, phone number, mailing address, e-mail address, Twitter name and/or Facebook name, how you found out about the contest, and agreement to these rules. Entries without ALL of this information will be voided. 
ENTRY PIECE REQUIREMENTS. (a) In the Entry Piece Email, you must demonstrate in 500 words or less why we should get you into BARKWORLD™ EXPO, (b) Sponsor will be looking for a creative, original and convincing approach to persuade them that you are, indeed, planning to attend. (c) Any language appearing on the Entry Piece must be in English. (d) Entry Pieces must be tasteful. Language will be evaluated by Sponsor based on context and societal acceptability. Content must be intended for a family audience and must, in the sole and unfettered discretion of the Sponsor, be suitable for a general audience and must not contain any nudity, sexually explicit, disparaging, libelous or other inappropriate content. (e) Entry Piece must not contain any commercial content that promotes any product or service other than the Sponsor's. (f) Entry Piece must not contain any trademarks, copyrighted works or other intellectual property (other than as owned by the Entrant). (g) Any elements appearing in an Entry Piece must be the Entrant's own original work, created solely by the Entrant. Use of anything that is not the Entrant's own original work, may result in disqualification. (h) Sponsor reserves the right to reject any Entry that it deems, in its sole discretion, to violate any of these content related requirements. (i) Entry Piece must not contain any links. 
Example: “I should be selected because I have been a volunteer for ______ to help animals____” 
Example: “I should be selected because ‘I saved the life of my pet ____ and here’s how I did it’.

Example: "I have the sweetest dog ever and this is how I have prepared his/her disaster kit ..."

Be serious. Be humorous. Be both! Be creative! 
Email entries should be sent to: redcrossdog@humanityroad.org 
If the content of the Entry Piece does not meet the requirements listed above, the Entry Piece will not be posted to HUMANITYROAD.ORG. 
By submitting your Entry, you certify that you have read and agree to these Official Rules. 
CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ENTRIES. By submitting an entry (or accepting any prize), each Entrant understands and agrees that their Entry Piece and name may be posted online to HUMANITYROAD.ORG, without further compensation or review, and will not be returned. Sponsor reserves the right to crop any entry in whole or in part or request submitters to do so, in order to be viewable online. Entrant further agrees to release Sponsor from any and all claims that any such use by Sponsor, including any commercial advertising presentation, web content or any other material subsequently produced, presented and/or prepared by or on behalf of Sponsor, infringes the Entrant's rights with regard to any elements, characters or ideas contained in its Entry. 
5. WHAT CAN I WIN? There will be FOUR (4) WINNERS. Each Winner will receive ONE (1) FREE REGISTRATION/ADMISSION TO THE BARKWORLD™ EXPO, to be held at Loews Atlanta Hotel, 1065 Peachtree Street, NE, Atlanta, GA 30309 from September 29 – October 1, 2011. Instructions on how to register online will be emailed to the Winners on MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2011. Prizes cannot be assigned, transferred, exchanged or otherwise redeemed. Your email address also will be forwarded to BarkWorld™ Expo so they can send you conference information. 
 
Sponsor is not responsible for any costs associated with accepting or otherwise using the prize. Sponsor is not responsible for any travel costs. Acceptance of prize constitutes permission to the Sponsor and its agents to use winner's name and Entry Piece on its website.
6. HOW DO I WIN? Winners will be chosen by HUMANITY ROAD, INC. based on contest guidelines and their submissions will be posted online. In the event of a tie, a panel of judges who are also HUMANITY ROAD, INC. volunteers will determine the winner based on the overall creativity of the tied entries. Judges' decisions are final, binding and conclusive on all matters related to the Contest. Three attempts to contact the potential Grand Prize Winners by telephone or email will be made. Exact means of contact is at the Sponsor's discretion. If a potential Grand Prize Winner is unable to be reached within five (5) days of the third contact attempt, or refuses to accept the prize, the potential Prize Winner will be disqualified and an alternate winner will be selected. 

Sponsor shall have no liability or responsibility to award any prize where: (a) any mail addressed to the potential Winner is returned to Sponsor as undeliverable without a forwarding address or if potential Winner cannot be contacted for any reason; or (b) potential Winner is deemed ineligible or otherwise non-compliant with any aspect of these Official Rules. ANY VIOLATION OF THESE OFFICIAL RULES BY ANY WINNER (AT SPONSOR'S SOLE DISCRETION) WILL RESULT IN SUCH INDIVIDUAL'S DISQUALIFICATION AS A WINNER AND ALL PRIVILEGES DUE SUCH INDIVIDUAL WILL BE IMMEDIATELY TERMINATED AND AN ALTERNATE PRIZE WINNER WILL BE SELECTED.
7. CONDUCT. By entering this Contest, each Entrant agrees to be bound by these Official Rules and by the decisions of the Sponsor and its judges and agents, which are final and binding in all matters relating to the Contest. Sponsor reserves the right at its sole discretion to disqualify and prohibit any Entrant from participating in the Contest or winning a prize who Sponsor suspects, in the sole discretion, of attempting to undermine the legitimate operation of the Contest by cheating, hacking, deception, or other unfair playing practices (including the use of automatic quick entry programs) or intending to annoy, abuse or threaten or harass any of the Sponsors' representatives or otherwise failing to comply with these Rules. NOTE: ANY ATTEMPT BY AN ENTRANT OR ANY OTHER PERSON TODAMAGE ANY WEB SITE ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPONSOR OR ITS AGENTS OR UNDERMINING THE LEGITIMATE OPERATION OF THE CONTEST IS A VIOLATION OF CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LAW, AND SPONSOR AND ITS AGENTS RESERVE THE RIGHT TO SEEK DAMAGES FROM ANY SUCH PERSON TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. 
8. RELEASE OF LIABILITY. Each winner, by acceptance of the prize, agrees on behalf of him/herself, his/her heirs, executors, representatives, assigns, administrators and next of kin to indemnify, hold harmless and release the Sponsor, its parent, subsidiary and affiliated businesses and each of their officers, directors, shareholders, employees, advisors, assignees, agents, representatives and any other person or entity associated with this Contest from any and all liability claims or actions of any kind with respect to or in any way arising from this Contest, participation in any Contest-related activity; and/or delivery/misdelivery, acceptance, possession, use, or misuse of a prize, including, but not limited to, liability for personal injury, bodily injury (including wrongful death or disability), damage to property, and damage or loss of any other kind. Sponsor is not responsible for any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by Web site users or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or used in the Contest or by any technical or human error that might occur in the processing of Contest Entries. Sponsor assumes no responsibility for any error; omission; interruption; deletion; defect; delay in operation or transmission; communications-line failure; or theft, destruction, unauthorized access to, or alteration of Entries. Sponsor is not responsible for any problems or technical malfunction of any telephone network or lines; computer online systems, servers, or providers; computer equipment; software; or failure of e-mail or entry on account of technical problems or traffic congestion on the Internet or at any Web site or combination thereof, including injury or damage to participant's or to any person's computer related to or resulting from participating in this Contest, downloading materials from Sponsor's Web site or emailing entries. Sponsor is not responsible for cheating or fraud by any participant. Any activities intended to disrupt or interfere with the proper play of the Contest or defraud Sponsor in any way will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Participants who engage in any of the foregoing activities will be disqualified and will forfeit any prizes won. If, for any reason, the Contest is not capable of running as planned, due to, without limitation, infection by computer virus, worm, or bugs; tampering; unauthorized intervention; fraud; technical failures; or any other causes beyond the control of Sponsor that, in the sole opinion of Sponsor, could corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity, or proper conduct of this Contest, Sponsor reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to cancel, terminate, modify, or suspend the contest. Sponsor is not responsible for any typographical or other error in the printing of these Official Rules or any materials associated with the administration of the Contest or the announcement of the prize. In all events, the sole maximum liability of Sponsor and its affiliates shall be limited to any of the prize(s) set forth herein. 
9. CHOICE OF LAW. Except where prohibited by law, all issues and questions concerning the constitution, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these Official Rules, or the rights and obligations of the participant and the Sponsor in connection with this Contest, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Virginia in the U.S., without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law rules (whether of the State of Virginia, or any other jurisdiction), which would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Virginia in the U.S. 
10. PRIVACY. Information Entrants provide to Sponsor will be used to communicate with Entrants regarding this Contest and otherwise as set forth in these Official Rules. By submitting an entry on-line to Sponsor, all Entrants acknowledge and agree that the personal information that they have provided will be maintained on HUMANITY ROAD, INC.'s server in accordance with HUMANITY ROAD, INC.'s Privacy Policy. 
11. PUBLICITY CONSENT. By submitting an entry or accepting a prize, where permitted by law, each winner grants to Sponsor and those acting pursuant to the authority of Sponsor the irrevocable right without any further notice, review or consent to print, publish, broadcast, distribute, and use, worldwide in any media now known or hereafter developed, including, but not limited to, the World Wide Web, in perpetuity and throughout the universe, his/her Entry, including, without limitation, the entry and winner's name, and statements about the Contest as news, publicity or information and for advertising, public relations and promotional purposes without any further compensation. 
12. WINNER'S IDENTITY & OFFICIAL RULES. Prize winners' name and Entry Piece, as well as a version of these Official Rules, suitable for printing, will be posted on the Sponsor's web site and the HUMANITY ROAD and/or ANIMALS IN DISASTER page on Facebook, at Sponsor's discretion. 
13. SPONSOR. HUMANITY ROAD, INC., 230 Washington Street, Boydton, Virginia 23917, sponsors this Contest. Sponsor reserves the right to cancel the Contest at any time and substitute another promotion in its place. 
14. For information about the BarkWorld™ Expo, go to: http://www.barkworldexpo.com.

Speaker Bio



 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink



 
Previous  1  2 3 Next 


Recent Posts
 The 9-11 Heroes with Four LegsInterview with All Paws Pet Talk on August 24, 2011Disaster Preparedness and PetsRemember and PrepareHurricane Irene 2011Are Your Pets Hurricane-Ready?Book Review: Guide to Pet SafetyTracy Underwood Wins "Get Me Into BarkWorld" Contest!Take a ChanceGet Me Into BarkWorld Expo! 
Tags
  rescue animals Be Prepared, Are you ready, Rescue Disaster Animals New Zealand Joplin North Carolina Kansas Contest South Carolina Tornado Red Cross Arizona Alabama National Preparedness Month 2011 Tucson Chance AVMA Iowa New Mexico search and rescue dogs New Jersey Animals in Disaster Fire Volunteer Michigan Oklahoma Missouri Massachusetts RedCrossDog horses Hurricane USA Vermont Japan United Kingdom Video livestock Pennsylvania Georgia Guide to Pet Safety Montana Hurricane Irene Social Media Education Disaster Preparedness Disaster Relief BarkWorld Expo animals NFPA Florida Virginia South Dakota storm surge All Paws Pet Talk Evacuation pets FEMA Flooding Chile heat stress Rhode Island Public Information North Dakota Haiti Delaware   Alabama (2) All Paws Pet Talk (1) animals (4) Animals in Disaster (19) Arizona (6) AVMA (2) BarkWorld Expo (2) Be Prepared, Are you ready, (10) Chance (1) Chile (2) Contest (2) Delaware (1) Disaster Animals (15) Disaster Preparedness (9) Disaster Relief (3) Education (1) Evacuation (3) FEMA (2) Fire (6) Flooding (4) Florida (1) Georgia (1) Guide to Pet Safety (1) Haiti (1) heat stress (1) horses (4) Hurricane (3) Hurricane Irene (2) Iowa (3) Japan (1) Joplin (6) Kansas (1) livestock (4) Massachusetts (3) Michigan (1) Missouri (7) Montana (2) National Preparedness Month 2011 (3) New Jersey (1) New Mexico (1) New Zealand (2) NFPA (1) North Carolina (1) North Dakota (1) Oklahoma (2) Pennsylvania (1) pets (10) Public Information (2) Red Cross (1) RedCrossDog (3) Rescue (4) rescue animals (1) Rhode Island (1) search and rescue dogs (1) Social Media (2) South Carolina (1) South Dakota (1) storm surge (1) Tornado (7) Tucson (1) United Kingdom (1) USA (9) Vermont (1) Video (1) Virginia (1) Volunteer (1) 
Archive
 September 2011 (4)August 2011 (5)July 2011 (6)June 2011 (6)May 2011 (6) 

 

Go Back

Humanity Road, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to educating the public with critical recovery information before, during and after a catastrophic disaster. Humanity Road, Inc. and its global volunteers endeavor to provide information that is useful, timely and as accurate as possible, however, they should not be viewed as an authoritative source. Please do not rely solely on the content of this web site for emergency response decision making without verification through alternate sources.

       
                                  


            
                   

                      
 
        Copyright © Humanity Road, Inc. 2011. All Rights Reserved.
        Design meets function at Kerkian Consulting, LLC.

















