“Internet Radio Show Promotes South Florida and Connects Advertisers with Boomers!” | Release Wire



BlogHelpPitching TipsWriting Tips








“Internet Radio Show Promotes South Florida and Connects Advertisers With Boomers!”
September 8, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Business



According to tcpalm.com Florida is about to be overrun with Baby Boomers (born between 1946-1964)  Between 2010 and 2030,  boomers are expected to descend upon the Sunshine State in record numbers as the state’s largest age group retires.
Ft. Lauderdale, FL, September 07, 2011 – According to tcpalm.com Florida is about to be overrun with Baby Boomers (born between 1946-1964)  Between 2010 and 2030,  boomers are expected to descend upon the Sunshine State in record numbers as the state’s largest age group retires.  In a nutshell, the Boomers have money and Florida would love you to spend it here, thank you very much!
And Its BEYOND Complicated: The Boomer Humor Radio Show — the #1 self-indulgent help program on Internet Radio (heard every Monday at 4-5PM EST on talkzone.com) wants to do its part by promoting Florida and connecting advertisers with this affluent generation.  The Boomer Humor Radio Show is the love child of author/humorists — and former northeast transplants — Peter “The Reinvention Guy” Fogel and Anna “The Armenian Goddess” Collins.
For over  two decades, Fogel and Collins were working comedians having appeared — or worked on over twenty-five television shows including Comic Strip Live, HBO’s Comedy Central, VH-!, Married with Children etc.  So what do two former working comics know about advertising and radio? It seems plenty.  Fogel says, “In my early show business days I was a voice-over actor who hawked products for American Express, Zuma, Whisk, Miller Lite and Mazda. I also did a lot of radio promoting club dates at local venues that I was performing at!”
Anna chimes in, “And I was a radio copywriter writing advertising spots at a Boston radio station.”  Fast forward today, Fogel  reinvented himself into a direct response copywriter, marketing and branding strategist.  His partner in mirth, The Armenian Goddess, reinvented herself into a graphic designer and animator.  And thus Boomer Humor Productions was conceived, born and nurtured.

Fogel says, “Consumers are inundated with over 3000 advertising messages a day from TV, Radio and the Internet.  We felt it’s vital that our advertisers message stand out from their competitions. To accomplish that,  we create Internet Radio spots for our show — and then combine those spots with animation (ANNAmationTM) The end results are  “animercials!”TM  Collins adds, “We’re using our comedy writing strengths and animation to hook the viewer into our advertiser’s message. It’s a one-two punch of brand awareness and a strong call to action!”
From the show’s success, Fogel and Collins have a Global Internet Radio following — as well as a local one due to the many comedy benefit gigs they do for the Miami Dade Autism Society.  Their club audience knows about local retailers as well as national companies that have an internet presence as well. (The Home Depot, Jamba Juice)
The draw of Its BEYOND Complicated is its humor, guest author/experts that speak on a variety of topics… and of course, celebrity interviews with such notables as Body By Jake Steinfeld, Academy Award Nominee Chazz Palminteri (A Bronx Tale) aw well as many other illuminaries to numerous to mention here.   For show replays (visit http://www.talkzone.com/shows/157/beyond.html, http://www.boomerhumorradio.com) — or for more info, call 561-749-0319
Contact:
Minerva Van Horn
Marketing Director
Boomer Humor Productions
5079 N. Dixie Highway Suite 274
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33334
561-749-0319
boomerhumorshow@gmail.com
http://www.boomerhumorradio.com
News from ReleaseWire.
 
Comments Off Tags: Boomer Humor Productions, boomers, Global Internet Radio, Internet Radio, Radio Show

 
Author: straightlinepr
                      This author has published 186 articles so far. More info about the author is coming soon.                    


Comments are closed.

More News From ‘Business’

AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
Canadian Green Forestry Investment Welcomed by FRA
The Number of Top Retailers Using Abandoned Basket Email Has Doubled
Top Marcellus Shale Resource Releases Updated Analysis of Industry Related Legislation
According to Ovum, AuraPortal Is Well Above Other BPM Providers in the International Market
Introducing FREE BEAUTY: Free Samples, Great Products, Exclusively From Organic Spa Magazine
New Hit Reality Show Follows San Diego Company
HK Pacific – Non-Farm Payrolls Critical for QE3 Decision.
Fire Retardant Spray Used in the World Trade Center Reconstruction Is Available for Homeowners
Text Message Marketing With Qittle.com to Increase Retail Sales






Submit Press Release


Username:



Password:



Remember Me



Register | Lost your password?


Advertise Here Contact us for information about advertising with ReleaseWire.

Useful Links







Most Popular



100%
Election Results 2011 website released – Get live updates of assembly elections


86%
Enterprise mobility market: Global Forecast & Industry Analysis (2010 - 2015)


72%
Global Solar Photovoltaic Market Analysis and Forecasts to 2020


55%
"A Good Man is Hard to Find" Returns to The Stage in 2011 – Live and On DVD


38%
73 Year Old Wins Miss Cougar America 2011 Title





Recent Releases

Authors Pose the Question Are We Poisoning Our Kids With Food?
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Books, Health & Fitness, Medical & Health

Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. New York, NY – September 12, 2011 — Today, nearly one-in-three children is overweight or obese. Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. Diabetes is showing up in children as young as …



The Journey Towards an HIV Cure Has Already Started
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Medical & Health

The time between now and the day when a cure for HIV is found is rapidly decreasing. What didn’t seem possible a generation ago is now within striking distance. At this point, it’s not a matter of if an HIV cure will be found, but when. Toulon, France, September 11, 2011 — The time between …



AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Business, Investment

Alternative Asset Analysis has backed forecasts that Brazilian real estate sector is poised for further expansion, boosting the foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country. Boston, MA, USA, September 11, 2011 — The Brazilian real estate sector is expected to help boost the foreign direct investment (FDI) in Brazil even further, said Anthony Johnson of …



Darwinian Evolution Revised for Human Society and Machines
September 12, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment, Books

The Theory of Evolution addresses biological changes over billions of years. A similar process, social evolution, applies to human societies. Now, another evolution has started: machine evolution. Which will win? Jacksonville, FL, September 12, 2011 – The theory we call Darwin’s Theory of Evolution, is actually a theory about the biological development of “life forms” …



Les Paul Is Dead. Now DOJ Is Trying to Kill Off Gibson Guitars as Well
September 11, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment

A recent Department of Justice raid on the headquarters of Gibson Guitars puts in question the fate of Gibson Guitars. The raid also may have serious implications for musicians and their instruments, throughout the United States. Nashville, TN, September 09, 2011 (Straight Line PR) — This story, incredible as it may seem, is true. It …



 


 

RSS feed
    © 2011 Release Wire



