Updated Severe Weather Risk 8AM 4-14-11 | WBAP Morning News




 































HomeMorning News Team (Bio/Email)

Hal Jay
Brian Estridge
Steve Lamb
Amy Chodroff
Brad Barton


Hal
Brian
Steve
Amy
Brad
Funny Stuff












Hi Grandpa »
 





 




                                           Updated Severe Weather Risk 8AM 4-14-11                                           

April 14, 2011    
                                            
 

Here’s the latest “Slight Risk Area” for severe thunderstorms this afternoon and evening.
Dallas/Fort Worth is now fully included in that area which has been shifted slightly west this morning.
http://www.spc.noaa.gov/
It’s going to be much worse for Southeastern Kansas, Eastern Oklahoma (Tulsa, McAlester, etc) and Western Arkansas tonight. Also, a small area of Northeast Texas is included in the elevated risk area (Paris, Texas, which has a long history of violent tornadic storms).
We expect storms to form between 5 and 8 PM near DFW and intensify rapidly with the risk of large hail and damaging straight-line winds. Storms could be come more tornadic as they move into Northeast Texas between 7 and 10 PM.
Stay with WBAP for frequent updates on the weather all day. The WBAP Weather Center will stay on top of the situation for you.
And check out http://www.weatherintouch.net if you’d like to be notified of any warnings (not watches, just actual warnings) in any of 13 North Texas counties. Your membership and profile are active and valid immediately.
- – Chief Meteorologist Brad Barton
posted by Brad Barton at 8:14am





Posted in Brad Barton Blog





 




Comments are closed. 





 






Hi Grandpa »
 


























 
 

























Recent Posts





“We’re number one!”
Beating the Heat; 100-degree records in Texas & Midwest
Have you made your Super Bowl picks yet?   Are you thinking about picking the Dallas Cowboys to represent the NFC in the big game?   Think again.
Have you ever lost your temper on the golf course?   I have but there wasn’t big money involved.   What were you thinking Nick Watney?
Last time I saw Terrell Owens crying it was when he was playing in Dallas and the Cowboys had just been eliminated from the playoffs and T O was defending quarterback Tony Romo.






















Archives





September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011






















Categories





Amy Chodroff's Stuff

Brad Barton Blog

Brian Estridge's Stuff

From The Show

Funny Stuff

Hal Jay's Stuff

Steve Lamb's Stuff

Uncategorized

Weather










































Powered by WordPress and WordPress Theme created with Artisteer.






