Baylor throws a block to stop Texas A&M leaving Big 12 | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Monday, September 12, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Waco News 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS








Please enable JavaScript to view this site



Baylor throws a block to stop Texas A&M leaving Big 12
By Michael W. Shapiro  and John Werner  Tribune-Herald  staff writers
Thursday September 8, 2011

  









   Email
   Print
  




		 
	

		 
	




More today
• John Werner: Baylor battening hatches for Big 12 survival
 

• Waco leaders await Baylor's guidance in Big 12 scuffle
 
• EDITORIAL: Baylor, Big 12 brethren right to take a stand against Texas A&M





The Battle of the Brazos has gone nuclear.
Baylor University asserted Wednesday its right to sue Texas A&M University and the Southeastern Conference over the impact of the Aggies’ departure from the Big 12 Conference.
The decision puts on hold A&M’s bid to become the newest member of the SEC.
Baylor is one of several Big 12 schools reportedly not willing to waive their legal right to sue over Texas A&M’s defection to the SEC. Rod Aydelotte / Waco Tribune-Herald, file 
And hours after news spread of Baylor’s decision, most other Big 12 schools also refused to waive their legal rights about the defection.
The Aggies’ move to the SEC had for much of the week seemed to be a matter of signing paperwork.
The University of Oklahoma was discussing its conference options and the possibility of joining the West Coast-based Pac-12.
Oklahoma football coach Bob Stoops even commented that the Red River Rivalry game against the University of Texas, played annually in Dallas since 1932, could be a casualty of conference realignment.
On Friday, Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe wrote a letter to SEC Commissioner Mike Slive that said it was in the best interest of the  Big 12 “conference and its members” not to sue about A&M’s departure or its entrance into the SEC.
But  Tuesday, Beebe sent Slive an email, obtained by the  Associated Press, in which he said Baylor’s Board of Regents “has not waived the university’s rights.”
A Baylor spokeswoman said the university was not releasing information about the conference negotiations Wednesday, but a source close to Baylor confirmed the university had made it clear it wouldn’t sign a waiver giving up its right to take the Aggies to court.
The source wasn’t authorized to discuss the conference talks and requested anonymity in order to speak.
During an afternoon conference call involving the Big 12 presidents, officials at Texas Tech, Kansas, Kansas State, Iowa State and Missouri said they also were not waiving their right to sue, the source said.
Texas and Oklahoma State officials, who were not on the conference call, also later indicated they would not waive their rights, the source said.
Oklahoma was the only school that indicated it would sign a waiver.
Beebe said later Wednesday in a statement that the conference’s waiving of its right to sue “did not and could not bind the individual member institutions’ governing boards.”
Beebe also stated that if A&M’s departure leads to further shake-ups in the Big 12’s membership, “several institutions may be severely affected.”
The Aggies officially notified the Big 12 of their intention to leave the conference Aug. 31, but the university broke the Big 12’s bylaws in the process because officials didn’t provide adequate notice, the source said.
The university also broke a 13-year, $1.2 billion TV contract with Fox Sports that all Big 12 members agreed to in April.
A&M’s exit fee for leaving the conference could be as much as $28 million.
Avoiding legal action
Still, A&M could end up in the SEC without a legal tussle if Baylor and other Big 12 schools who refused to sign legal waivers are assured the departure won’t lead to the breakup of the Big 12, the source said.
The schools who haven’t waived their legal rights, the source said, agreed that if Oklahoma stays in the Big 12 — bolstering conference stability — they likely would relinquish their rights to sue A&M.
Oklahoma is expected to make a decision about its conference future in a few weeks.
“The Big 12 is worth preserving, and Baylor’s giving it one gallant try,” said Drayton McLane, Temple trucking magnate and an emeritus member on Baylor’s Board of Regents.
“You’ve got 107 years of tradition,” McLane said. “Not only is it great rivalries we look forward to every year, but economically the conference is very important to us in Texas.”
Former Baylor regent David Sibley said he liked Baylor’s decision to maintain its legal options.
“Maybe we’ll be the ones to save the Big 12,” he said.
Some A&M graduates chafed upon learning Baylor and other Big 12 members were standing in the way of the Aggies’ new conference plans.
A&M President R. Bowen Loftin referred to Baylor in a statement Wednesday, expressing disappointment “in the threats made by one of the Big 12 member institutions to coerce  Texas A&M into staying in the Big 12 Conference.”
“We are being held hostage right now,” Loftin told the AP. “Essentially, we’re being told that you must stay here against your will, and we think that really flies in the face of what makes us Americans, for example, and makes us free people.”
Waco Mayor Jim Bush was busy attending a city event Wednesday morning and didn’t hear about the latest wrinkle in the Big 12 discussions until a reporter called.
“I got a sarcastic email from an Aggie threatening not to stop in Waco because of what Baylor did,” Bush said. “I was wondering what he was talking about.”
Sibley said it’s worth ruffling some feathers if that’s what it takes to preserve the conference.
“A&M is doing what’s best for A&M, and I’m glad Baylor’s doing what’s best for Baylor,” he said.
Baylor alum and former Texas Gov. Mark White praised Baylor’s course of action and questioned A&M’s decision not to stick with its conference agreements.
“A deal’s a deal,” White said, “and we didn’t do anything to change the deal, so why should we suffer?”
“Texas A&M has a tradition of honor, courage and trustworthiness, and they shouldn’t be violating those principles just because of athletics,” he said.
For now, McLane said regents will continue a full-court lobbying press.
“I think all of us on the board have talked to just about everyone we know, including members of the A&M and Texas boards,” he said.
He noted the drama isn’t over yet, too.
“This is kind of like a soap opera," he said, before pausing and adding, “to be continued.”
mshapiro@wacotrib.com
757-5707
jwerner@wacotrib.com
757-5716
RELATED SEARCHES

Waco leaders await Baylor's guidance in Big 12 scuffle
John Werner: Baylor battening hatches for Big 12 survival
EDITORIAL: Baylor, Big 12 brethren right to take a stand against Texas A&M





  









   Email
   Print
  




			 
		


				MORE IN WACO NEWS »























 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 
Blogs





 

Joe Science
Waco back in triple digits

 
 
 
 
Sound & Sight
Friday amusement: The Build-Your-Own-Bear Conference

 
 
 
 
High School Sports
Bonus football notes: Tidbits about Central Texas teams
Podcast: This week's football preview

 
 
 
 
The Bear Blog
Podcast: Talking TCU (RG3 for Heisman?), Big 12 future and more

 
 
 

Music Notes
Holly Tucker Releases New CD After Winning Prestigious Statewide Music Competition

 
 
 
 
Waco Politics Report
Jim Dunnam talks to Bryan-College Station Democrats

 
 
 
 
Mike's Marketplace
C3/Customer Contact Channels still seeking job applicants

 
 
 
 
Wendy Does Waco
Trying to pick up the pace

 
 
 

Order Up!
More frozen yogurt headed to Waco

 
 
 
 
 
More blogs
Voices around the community.
• All blogs
 
 








 













 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 







 





 

 







 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




