lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » November






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Monday, November 29, 2010
Chris Turnham (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:47 am 
 


The good new is that since I last wrote about Chris Turnham back in 2006 his website has been updated with more of his wonderfully graphic, superbly designed and beautifully colored illustrations.
The bad news is that, for reasons that continue to elude me, they are displayed in a “pop-up-and-close” style navigation from a scrolling list of thumbnails in a cramped little frame. This makes the process of looking through them less convenient than it might be.
Even his News and About pages are scrunched up in that little frame. Fortunately, Turnham now also has a blog, which is not hampered by that restriction. In the blog you will find additional art, including examples of his work as a concept and production artist.
Turnham has for several years been involved in a collaborative project with illustrator Kevin Dart called Fleet Street Scandal. Originally focused on a book showcasing their work, the project has expanded into limited edition prints, giclees and a line of apparel. You can also find Turnham’s limited edition prints at Gallery Nucleus.
Turnham currently works for Laika, the production company responsible for the wonderful Coraline animated feature film. 
His work was featured prominently in the concept art reproductions of the magical garden and plants from the movie that were included in the remarkable Coraline Mystery Box that I received as part of Laika’s viral promotion campaign for the film. 
You can see some of Turnham’s work on the film (image above, bottom) by searching for “Coraline”  on his blog.
[Addendum: I just found out that Chris Turnham has a new TumbleLog with a section devoted to Coraline Production Art.]


Link: www.christurnham.com
http://christurnham.blogspot.com (blog)
New TumbleLog
Fleet Street Scandal
My previous post on Chris Turnham
My post on my Coraline Mystery Box, with image gallery
My post on Coraline Concept Art

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Sunday, November 28, 2010
Modern Life: Edward Hopper and His Time

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:35 pm 
 


Modern Life: Edward Hopper and His Time is the title of an exhibition currently on view at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York.
The exhibition focuses on realism in American art between 1900 and 1940, a time when European Modernism was becoming a dominant force in the art world, pushing realism into a minor role. 
The show, drawn primarily from the Whitney’s own collections, includes a number of works by Hopper and his contemporaries, including Everett Shinn, John Sloan, Charles Burchfield, Paul Strand, Charles Sheeler and Reginald Marsh (see my posts on Edward Hopper, Everett Shinn, John Sloan and Charles Burchfield).
The Whitney’s website feature in the exhibition includes a small image gallery, but there are more images, along with interesting accounts of the artists and art styles of the period, in the History section.
Modern Life: Edward Hopper and His Time is on view until April 10, 2011.
(Images above: top three: Edward Hopper, bottom: Everett Shinn)


Link: Modern Life: Edward Hopper and His Time, Whitney Museum of American Art, to 4/10/11
My posts on Edward Hopper, Everett Shinn, John Sloan and Charles Burchfield

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »



Mailbag Art Museum (Sarah Musi)

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:01 pm 
 


Sarah Musi, an illustrator and comics artist based in Washington State, has come up with one of those “don’t you wish you had thought of it” ideas, and recently embarked on a project she calls “mailbag art museum“.
In August of this year Musi created a list of her “favorite artists in the whole wide world“, and over the period of a few weeks sent each of them an original work painted on an artist trading card (see my post on artist trading cards).
These were accompanied by a blank card and an invitation, in comic strip form, to return the card with a corresponding piece of original work, however simple or elaborate, and an answer to a question posed with the original letter.
To date she has received 6 responses and has posted them on the project’s blog along with the original piece she sent to them, a brief description and a short bio of the artist.
In the images above, I’ve placed Musi’s original piece on the left, next to the pieces received in response  — top right: Robert Hargrave, middle right: Tiffany Bozic, third right: Allison Sommers. I’ve also taken the liberty of reproducing a photo from Sommers’ blog showing the relative size of the cards.
[Via MetaFilter]


Link: http://mailbagartmuseum.blogspot.com
Sarah Musi illustration blog
Sarah Musi's self-administered comics

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, November 27, 2010
Vasili Nechitailo

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:57 pm 
 


Like many of his contemporaries, Vasili (or Vasliy) Nechitailo, a Russian painter active in the middle of the 20th Century, is not well known outside of his homeland. One reason for this is that little in the way of cultural exchange was allowed during the era of Soviet Russia.
Nechitailo studied at the Krasnodar Art Tekhnikum, the Surikov Institute and the Moscow Art Institute. He later returned to the Surikov Institute to teach.
Generally considered a realist, the painterly brushwork, bright colors and economically suggested subjects of Nechitailo’s later work also put him in the company of painters considered to be Russian Impressionists.
To the casual observer, Nechitailo’s idylic farms and fields, glowing under the sun of a Russian Summer, seem in keeping with the Impressionist’s portrayals of the French countryside, but the circumstances under which they were painted could hardly have been more different. 
In Nechitailo’s case, the idealized fields, and the ennobled workers who toiled in them, were used as propaganda, extolling the virtues and hard work, dedication to the state, and the bounty of the Soviet farming economy. The approved style was called Socialist Realism and was meant to promote the ideology of the Soviet state. 
In addition to those subjects and official portraits of government figures, Nechitailo also found time to pursue subjects of his own, without the political overtones, including scenes of Venice.
There is a show of Nechitailo’s work, the first solo show of a major Soviet era painter outside Russia, at the Museum of Russian Art in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Art of Vasili Nechitailo is currently on view and runs until February 27, 2011. The museum’s site has a small slide show of paintings, but I’ve listed some other, more extensive resources below.
Ironically, the exhibition was assembled by Masha Zavialova, curator at the museum, who emigrated to the U.S. in 2001. Her childhood experience of growing up in Leningrad (now St. Petersburg) under Soviet rule was one of an oppressive, closed society, in which work like Nechitailo’s was another arm of the government, pushing its ideological message into the lives of the citizenry with state approved art and propaganda posters. 
She hated it at the time, but has now been able to look back with a fresh view, seeing it both within and outside of its original context. 
There is an interesting article about the exhibit in the Minneapolis – St. Paul StarTribune, in which Zavialova is quoted: 
“Before I just looked at the [Nechitailo] subjects and they were oppressive to me,” she said. “Now, I look at the canvases and brushwork and find them very interesting and they’ve stopped being threatening. (…) It’s the nature of time. Now I love his work.”


Link: The Art of Vasili Nechitailo, Museum of Russian Art, to 2/27.11
Soviet sunshine, Russian Light, Minneapolis - St. Paul StarTribune
Vasili Nechitailo on BobArt.org
Dacha Art (note links to multiple pages)
Artnet
Collecting Russian Art blog

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Friday, November 26, 2010
Color and Light: A Guide for the Realist Painter

Posted by Charley Parker at 4:09 pm 
 


Color. What other factor in art is so simultaneously fascinating and frustrating for artists? 
Numerous books have been written on the subject; some are less than worthwhile, some are good, some are excellent, and a few have become so relied on that over time they have become standards. 
Each takes a certain approach to the subject, emphasizing color choices, color mixing, experimentation, analysis, etc., but of the many books on color that I’ve encountered over time, there always seemed to be key parts of the puzzle that hadn’t been addressed yet — a certain kind of book on color that was missing.
I didn’t really know what that book was until James Gurney wrote Color and Light: A Guide for the Realist Painter.
In Color and Light, which has just been released, we get the printed version of having an experienced painter leaning over our shoulder, giving us his best advice and taking us beyond the basics into the subtleties of the practical application of color in the process of creating paintings.
This is the “other” book on color, the one that takes the practice of working with color, and the understanding of color and light and how we perceive them, to the next level. 
Gurney, who I have written about previously on several occasions, has culled a treasure trove of insightful observations, practical tips, experimental trials and artful technique from years of painting a wide range of subjects in a variety of visual approaches. 
He has been a renowned illustrator, portraitist, landscape artist, plein air painter and scientific artist; and beyond that has for years been a restless experimenter, investigating the work of master artists, thinking about and working with color in all of its aspects as related to painting.
For the past several years, Gurney, best known as the creator of the popular Dinotopia series of illustrated fantasy stories, has been writing a blog called Gurney Journey. Those of us who have been following Gurney Journey since its inception have reaped the benefit of a generous bounty of art related information, advice, observations, experiments, discoveries, and links that he has made available in his frequent posts over the past few years.
Some of this material, along with new material culled from Gurney’s expertise as an illustrator, were codified into a book in 2009 called Imaginative Realism: How to Paint What Doesn’t Exist, which I reviewed here.
In Color and Light he has also pulled from those observations and expositions (you can see some of the topics by searching for Color and Light book, or simply color on the GurneyJourney blog), but gone well beyond that into a great deal of new material written specifically for the book.
While I think of this book as advanced in many ways, Gurney does go into many of the fundamentals of color and color theory, with succinct chapters on the history of color theory, pigments, the academic tradition, plein air painting, magazine illustration, chroma and value, warm and cool, local and reflected color, atmospheric perspective, color schemes, limited palettes, reflections, highlights and shadows and many others. Beginners as well as advanced painters will find a wealth of information.
However, he goes beyond the ordinary with thoughtful excursions into topics like understanding gamuts, subsurface scattering, specular reflections, different natural and artificial light sources, and expert techniques for handling difficult problems like reflection and transparency, fog and mist, skies and foliage, nocturnes, cloud shadows, and premixing colors for a painting. 
Though some of the information may be familiar, I think that most artists will find the book to be a treasure trove of small but significant revelations, as if dozens of little “Ah-ha!” lightbulbs (of varying spectrums) were appearing over your head as you read.
I consider this book, if not a “must-have”, at the very least a “must-see” for any representational painter. I urge you to pick it up and look through it in a bookstore. 
I’m a little concerned that “fine art” painters might assume from a casual leaf-through that the presence of fantasy illustrations would indicate the focus of the book is not in their direction, particularly because the fantasy illustrations often have a “jump off the page” quality to them and seem dominant. Nothing could be further off the mark, the material is exactly on target for realist painters of any background who want to get a better handle on light and color.
You can get a virtual “pick up and leaf through” from the nicely extensive preview on the Amazon.com listing (click on the “Look Inside” cover image), as well as a video flip-through from Spectrum, reposted on Gurney Journey, and another on Parka Blogs.
In addition to being available through bookstores and online booksellers, you can order directly from the the Dinotopia store and have your copy signed by the author.
Like any book from James Gurney, this one is a visual treat; in this case illustrated with works from great painters and illustrators of the past, as well as Gurney’s own illustrations, sketches, diagrams and paintings. Just like his previous instructional book, it can also be enjoyed as a coffee table art book.
Only time will tell, of course, but I think Color and Light: A Guide for the Realist Painter will take a place as a new standard text among books on color, destined to be a fixture on the bookshelves of painters and illustrators for years to come.
 


Link: Color and Light: A Guide for the Realist Painter : Dinotopia store
Amazon.com listing
Previous post about James Gurney (links to more at bottom of post)

Posted in:  Book Reviews,Illustration,Painting,Tools and Techniques   |   9 Comments »


Thursday, November 25, 2010
Rockwell’s Four Freedoms

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:12 am 
 


Most Americans associate Norman Rockwell’s iconic painting of the formal family meal, shown above, top, with today’s holiday of Thanksgiving, and its traditional signature main course of roast turkey. 
The painting, however, was painted with a different intention (even though the model for the turkey was actually the turkey from his own family Thanksgiving dinner). 
Titled Freedom From Want, the painting was originally part of a series of four; I’ve pulled the top one out of it’s usual third position in the sequence here.  The others were Freedom of Speech, Freedom of Worship and Freedom From Fear.
They were Rockwell’s response  to a speech delivered by then President Franklin D. Roosevelt to Congress in January of 1941, in which he spoke of four essential freedoms that should be recognized and guaranteed everywhere in the world:
“In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms.
The first is freedom of speech and expression — everywhere in the world.
The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way — everywhere in the world.
The third is freedom from want — which, translated into universal terms, means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy peacetime life for its inhabitants-everywhere in the world.
The fourth is freedom from fear — which, translated into world terms, means a world-wide reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor — anywhere in the world.
That is no vision of a distant millennium. It is a definite basis for a kind of world attainable in our own time and generation. That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with the crash of a bomb.”
The speech was meant to prepare Congress, and the American public, for Roosevelt’s intention that the country should become directly involved in opposing Nazi Germany in its widening military domination of Western Europe, which the U.S. did, with a declaration of war (such an old fashioned notion these days) in December of that year.
Roosevelt used the image of American ideals of freedom as a symbol of the individual liberties being suppressed by the Fascist regime. (On a side note, “Fascist” has become a popular epithet with which some American political figures  attempt to brand their political enemies these days. Most people who use it, or at least those who listen to them, apparently have no idea what the term actually means. Look it up.)
Rockwell, at the time the dominant star of American illustration, had a strong response to Roosevelt’s speech and two years later painted a series of four paintings depicting the four freedoms as scenes from American life.
He originally conceived the series in 1942, and attempted to volunteer his services to the government agencies responsible for war propaganda, but was met with lack on interest. (“Propaganda“, by the way, is another term whose actual meaning is often lost in its buzzword connotations and popular interpretation. Again I suggest looking it up.)
Rockwell instead submitted the paintings to the Saturday Evening Post, for which he had been regularly painting covers, and their publication was met with great popular response and millions of requests for reprints. 
The government eventually recognized the power of the images and used them on posters for the efforts to support the expense of the war with the sale of War Bonds (another quaint notion these days). 
Rockwell himself reportedly struggled with the paintings, never entirely happy with them and concerned that they lacked sufficient power.  He worked on them over a seven month period, during which he reportedly lost several pounds from the strain of working on them so intensely.
The public, however, loved them. They were reprinted on four million posters and were displayed in a touring exhibition that drew over a million visitors. They are now considered among Rockwell’s signature works, and were the subject of a book published in 1993 on the 50th anniversary of their original publication.
The four paintings are currently in the collection of the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, the director of which recently participated in the International Four Freedoms Award ceremonies in the Netherlands.


Link: Norman Rockwell Museum
International Four Freedoms Award ceremonies
The Four Freedoms on the U.S. National Archives
Wikipedia
Post on Coffee and Caffine

Posted in:  Illustration   |   5 Comments »


Wednesday, November 24, 2010
BoldBrush November competition entries

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:43 pm 
 


BoldBrush is a painting competition held by Canvoo, an arts newsletter produced by a company that sells hosted artist websites.
Entries are not limited to customers, and they post the entries online in a large grouping that is worth looking through. There are quite a number of interesting entries, and there are links to additional images of entries, past and present, by the individual artists.
Yon can step through multiple pages of thumbnails, view all on a single page or view a selection of popular entries.
You can also just use Google to find the artist’s websites to see more of their work.
(Images above, links to BoldBrush entries: Jeffery Sparks, Margie Murray, Leah Richmond, J.M. Brodrick, Richard Christian Nelson,  Alan Dingman, Tom Heflin) 


Link: BoldBrush: thumbnails, view all, and popular entries

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »



Past trains of the future

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:00 pm 
 


I just love illustrator’s visions of future transportation from the early to mid 20th Century. 
Popular Science has a 10 image gallery of some wonderful trains that I want to ride. 
(Plus I’m still waiting for the gyrocopter in every garage and my personal jetpack.)
Isn’t it the future yet? 


Link: Thrilling Trains of the Future, PopSci article with gallery

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, November 23, 2010
Arthur Hughes

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:15 pm 
 


Though he was never a formal member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, English painter and illustrator Arthur Hughes was part of their circle and distinctly influenced by the Pre-Raphaelite style and subject matter.
Younger than the established Pre-Raphaelite painters, Hughes was first attracted to their movement by a magazine they published for short time called The Germ. 
Hughes didn’t fare well with the Royal Academy, arbiter of artistic value in England at the time, but he was welcomed by the Pre-Raphaelites, attended their meetings, and became friends with several of the seminal figures, Millais in particular. 
In addition to the familiar Pre-Rahaelite subjects from Shakespeare, Authurian legend, other literature  and history, he painted portraits and scenes of ordinary life. 
Hughes was particularly known for his paintings of lovers that were meditations on the fleeting nature of beauty, love and youth.


Link: Arthur Hughes on The Athenaeum
CGFA (note link to second page)
ARC
ArtMagick (note link to second page)
Wikimedia Commons
ArthurHughes.org
Birmingham Museums (drawings)
Birmingham Museums (paintings)
Delaware Art Museum (illustration)
Bio on Wikipedia
ArtCyclopedia (additional links and museum listings)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »



Moebius art on Tumblr

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:47 am 
 


Jean Giraud, more commonly known as Moebius, and who also signs some work as “GIR”, is a French comics artist and illustrator, very well known in Europe, less so here in the U.S.
Moebius is my favorite comics artist, and if you think of him as an illustrator, one of my favorites in that category as well. I haven’t had time to write a proper post on him, but I didn’t want to let this go by. 
There is often, for various reasons, a dearth of Moebius art available on the web. His official site comes and goes and doesn’t show his work to best advantage.
However, someone has posted a nice variety of Moebius art on a Tumblr blog called Quenched Consciousness, and I wanted to point it out on an “enjoy it while you can” basis, as these things tend to disappear.
Though a somewhat disjointed collection — the comics aren’t in the context of the whole story and there is a glaring lack of images from his brilliant work on Lieutenant Blueberry — it’s still a nice cross section of his various styles, particularly if you’re not familiar with his work.
[Note: linked site contains images that are NSFW and not suitable for children.]
[Via Tom Gauld]


Link: Quenched Consciousness (unofficial tumblr blog)
http://www.moebius.fr/ (official Moebius site)
Blueberry (official site)

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   8 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






