Furnish 123 Champagne and Confection Back to School Celebration « Furnish 123 Austin


Twitter
Facebook
RSS Feed


Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to secondary content
Skip to footer





Furnish 123 Austin


Furniture buying made easy


HomeAboutCatalogMeet our ArtistsSpecials and PromotionsContact us

 



 ← Blazing Bovine 

Diaster Relief for Texas Wildfire Victims  → 


Furnish 123 Champagne and Confection Back to School Celebration

Posted on September 1, 2011 by Furnish123ATX


On Tuesday, August 30, 2011 we hosted a champagne and confection Back to School celebration at our store.
Party time!
We toasted the new school year and all the nostalgic memories it brings with glasses of champagne and mouthwatering morsels from SugaPlump Pastries and Cornucopia Gourmet Popcorn.
Dill pickle and sundried tomato basil flavored popcorn from our friends at Cornucopia
We couldn’t get enough of  the delicious popcorn and pastries.  A big thank you  to SugaPlump and Cornucopia for providing the treats.
Lemondrop cake pops & white chocolate Irish creme infused cakeballs & mini french vanilla and strawberry cupcakes from SugaPlump Pastries & Catering
Guests met our “artists in residence” Tolly Moseley of Austin Eavesdropper and Maureen Stevens of Inglenook Decor and Inspired Mrs. Stevens.
Room designers & guest bloggers Maureen & Tolly
Both Tolly and Maureen designed spaces at F123 and were our “You Never Forget Your First” guest bloggers. We unveiled their well-styled spaces at the party.
Maureen's Furnish 123 Room
Maureen used Furnish 123′s Riverton sofa in Spa, Cubit ivory cubes, Aaron Spa chairs and  Marsha lamps in her relaxing room design.
With its soft blues and vanilla tones, we felt like it was a room one would want to retreat to after a long day. A little “seaside” get away.
Another shot of Maureen's beautiful room
In Tolly’s room, she used our Oakmere Truffle Leather Sofa, Showwood Accent Chair, Flanders coffee table and Natane lamps for her awesomely styled space. We called it “the cigar room.”  Tolly remarked that she was used to have male roommates in college and that she was accustomed to designing for the male color palette: deep browns and leather.
Tolly's room design
Tolly's dashing room
Guests also wrote on the Conquest Wall/Wall of Shame on the days leading up to the party and during the party and we gave away a free throw blanket to all contest entrants.
Checking out the wall of shame and wall of conquest
Posting a first furniture purchase story
We drew from the first and worst furniture purchases on our Wall of Shame/Conquest Wall from our Never Forget Your First Contest and awarded the winners a FREE sofa, a dinette set with chairs and a table, or a dresser drawer chest. Contestants to be called this week.
Furnish 123 owner, Kyle Gage, drawing our contest winners
Here’s to memories of your first day of college, your first dorm room, your first apartment, your first home and your first adult furniture purchase.
Cheers!
Thanks to all who joined us for our Back to School celebration. We enjoyed meeting new people and seeing some of our regulars. We also enjoyed reading all of the fun and creative  You Never Forget Your First contest entries. For more photos of the party,  like us and check out our Facebook page.

Advertisement

Share this:EmailFacebookTwitterRedditDiggStumbleUponLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post. 

Leave a comment
		Posted in Contests, Austin, Furniture, Back to School, Events, college, Featured artists and tagged austin, tolly moseley, austin eavesdropper, first furniture purchase, worst furniture purchase, affordable furniture, back to school, win free furniture, Maureen Stevens, Inglenook Decor, Inspired Mrs. Stevens, college furniture, austin furniture, you never forget your first, college, sugaplump pastries and catering, cornucopia gourmet popcorn. Bookmark the permalink.	



 Blazing Bovine 

Diaster Relief for Texas Wildfire Victims  



Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 






 RSS FeedAustin Museum of Art “Good Design” Art ExhibitVisit us!
Search
Search for:



Follow us!
@Furnish123ATX & @GageFurniture are offering disaster relief to our neighbors affected by #centraltxfires. More info: bit.ly/qlVCND 19 hours ago
Trend watch for fall 2011 from @AptTherapy: Braids are back http://t.co/Znr8rby 1 day ago
Light up your living room with lamps from @Furnish123ATX. 2 lamps for only $99: http://t.co/cy6gFpD 1 day ago
Mix it up for the new season. Top picks for fall paint colors: http://t.co/7k1SB1G 2 days ago
@Furnish123ATX & @GageFurniture are offering disaster relief to our neighbors affected by #centraltxfires. More info: bit.ly/qlVCND 2 days ago

Categories 
About Furnish 123

Austin

Austin events

Back to School

college

Color

Contests

Design news

Events

Featured artists

Furnishing

Furniture

Furniture care

Furniture market

Gifts

Guest Post

Mood board

Philanthropy

Rental staging

SXSW

Technology

Tips & Tricks

Trends

Uncategorized


Tagsaffordable furniture
apartment living
austin
austin american statesman
austin eavesdropper
Austin events
austin furniture
back to school
brentwood
college
college furniture
college grads
color
contests
Create Your Own Space
crestview
decorating
design
farmer's market
first furniture purchase
furnishing
furniture
furniture care
furniture industry
great deals
guest post
home design
home improvement
Inglenook Decor
Inspired Mrs. Stevens
Las Vegas Furniture Market
Maureen Stevens
national pet month
new furniture
pets
small spaces
sofas
SXSW
tips and tricks
tolly moseley
University of Texas
violet crown spring festival
win free furniture
worst furniture purchase
you never forget your first

 

Blog at WordPress.com.
       			Theme: Liquorice by Nudge Design.        		

















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			








