PRESIDENT OBAMA FACES G.O.P. HEAD ON «  Protégé(e) Magazine





Protégé(e) Magazine





user area

search





Privacy PolicyTerms of ServiceWhat is Protégé(e) Magazine?CEO’s MessageContact Us!
















				FAIL (the browser should render some flash content, not this).

			






 Categories		 
Auto

Cinema

Fashion

Food

Helpful Hints & Tips

Levels of Success

News

Opportunity Pages

Parenting

Relationships

Travel


  Pages		 
CEO’s Message
Contact Us!
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
What is Protégé(e) Magazine?

   		
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


   Paypal		 



  






<<“Social Recluse: Staying True to the Art of Music”
DEATH TOLL OF TEXAS WILDFIRE RISES>>




PRESIDENT OBAMA FACES G.O.P. HEAD ON

									September 7, 2011 7:01 pm | News 



 
DETROIT- “People will see a president who will be laying very significant proposals throughout the fall leading up this next state of the union address”. Says president Obama’s director of the National Economic Council, Gene Sperling. The president plans to nationally address the working class and many significant employers Thursday night as he introduces his jobs and economic recovery plan. The president addressed the issue that many roads and bridges across the nation could and need to be repaired on Labor Day, as he gave a crowd of many supporters and spectators a preview of what his comments would be Thursday. President Obama also stated that many jobs, an estimated 1 million, could be created by infrastructure development, and he notes that Congress is the obstacle that is standing in the way of any forward progress.
With an overall approval rating that has declined to an astonishing 26% in recent days, many question if the president has a likely chance to become re-elected. Despite criticism, president Obama remains hopeful that the jobs plan being unveiled this week will turn his chances around of re-election, and spur job and workforce growth in the incoming months. “I am going to propose ways to put America back to work that both parties can agree to, because I still believe both parties can work together to solve our problems”. Stated the president in his short speech in Detroit on Labor Day afternoon. It is estimated that, if enacted into law, the jobs plan that the president is proposing could in fact generate an incredible amount of jobs, nearly 6 million, by the year 2013, and place the workforce on a much more grounded and stable path.
To the obstacle of the Congressional Republicans, president Obama stated, “Show us what you’ve got”. A calling out of any sort of job creation or growth plan that could aid the overall progression of the workforce in America. Congress returns from its recess this week, and the president’s Thursday night speech to the nation could be a very significant step in a re-election campaign movement and more importantly, economic soundness and recovery for a nation struggling to make ends meet in more ways that one. “We’re going to see if we’ve got some straight shooters in Congress. We’re going to see if Congressional Republicans will put country before party”. The president remarked as he addressed the issue of job growth and the obstacles that seem to stand in progress’ way.
Pending trade deals passed and new spending on public works is an area that the president is steadfast on developing in the upcoming months. President Obama is expected this Thursday to also call for more jobless and unemployed benefits and payroll tax cut for many workers, as he and Washington continue to put the pieces of the economic puzzle together. Many Republicans, including gov. Mitt Romney, have attempted to tarnish the president’s credibility and future success by nicknaming him “President Zero” as his August job report came barreling through this week. August job growth in America was completely at 0%, yet there has not been a 1% minimum job growth in the United States since that month in 1945, the month and year that the second World War ended and victory in the Pacific was declared.
“The time for Washington games is over. The time for action is now”. President Obama stated Labor Day as he addressed a very active and attentive crowd of many. Action is what many officials claim will be the heavy content of the president’s speech on Thursday night, and many believe that it will be a delivery that will be gigantic in its nature of job creation suggestions and plans that will, without a doubt, place the nation back on a forward moving path.
The Philosophy:
I am glad that the president has made clear what his plans are, who is standing in the way of them, and how they are going to become reality will be announced this Thursday night to the nation. I have total faith in president Obama’s ability to make these propositions a reality, because spending on job creation is the right action to take in order to achieve growth that can be a significant factor in pulling this nation out of financial woe. Understand though, that his statements that he believes Republicans and Democrats can still work together is, in my mind false. I believe that current that statement is false, and the president knows that it is as well, but he is shrewd and wise seeing as though it could help him in the re-election process. He sees that he is reaching out his hand to his enemies, and they are spitting in it and defaming his name and reputation on national and worldwide television. The president’s plan for job growth should be phenomenal when enacted, there needs to be a more sound plan to deal with the badgering and hard time that Congress is giving him than simply “killing them with kindness” approach. As he said, “the time for games has stopped”. That is so true, and I’d love to see a fiery president Obama once again that is passionate and powerful in his words and actions as he was during the 2008 Presidential Election. I believe though, in all reality, that fiery Obama has toned down a bit, and he is more practical, but he realizes that he can put the nation back to work, and I have 100% faith in him to make that happen.
-Justin Gibson 
Share/Bookmark






									This entry was posted
																		on Wednesday, September 7th, 2011 at 7:01 pm									and is filed under News.
									You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
																			You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
																	





Leave a Reply



Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website












 








Protégé(e) Magazine is proudly powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS)









 










