 GivingCity Austin



Home
About
ADVERTISE
Contact
HELP FIRE VICTIMS
Magazine
SUBSCRIBE
Directory
Feedback










GivingCity Austin


Entries RSS | Comments RSS







 






 

INSIDE

About

GivingCity Contributors Agreement


ADVERTISE
Contact
HELP FIRE VICTIMS
Magazine
SUBSCRIBE
Directory
Feedback


SUBSCRIBE
Subscribe by email: Get new posts and find out when the next issue is available here: SUBSCRIBE 
Please follow instructions on confirmation email. 


Categories

About the magazine

Creative fundraising

Events

Good Causes

Animal Welfare

Arts & Culture

Children's Services

Community Services

Disaster Relief

Education/Training

Environment

Health Care

Homelessness/Housing

Legal Services

Literacy

Poverty/Basic Needs

Seniors' Services

Victims' Services



Interview

Opportunities

Giving opportunities

Learning opportunities

Volunteering opportunities



State of Austin Philanthropy

The business of nonprofits

Uncategorized

Volunteering

What it's like …

What it's like to give

What it's like to lead

What it's like to need

What it's like to volunteer





Share GivingCity







Meta

Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org


Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 








How to help victims of Central Texas fires

Posted on September 6, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

Bastrop fire as viewed from Austin, photo by Deanna Roy
GivingCity Austin readers are anxious to help the victims of the fires smoldering across Central Texas – in Cedar Park, Leander, Steiner Ranch, Bastrop and more. Here are some resources for you:
First, the urge to help people may be strong, but please don’t drive out to the sites of the fires unless you’re a trained Red Cross volunteer or a volunteer fire fighter.
Second, if you want to give someone or a family financial support, please do. You don’t have to do this through a charity.
According to MariBen Ramsey, COO/VP/general counsel of the Austin Community Foundation, a person can give another individual up to $13,000 per year (up to $1 million) without paying a gift tax. This gift to another individual is not tax deductible, however.
The only time a gift is considered tax deductible is when it is given to an IRS-recognized charity. You can verify nonprofits by searching for them on Guidestar.
List of resources for donors and volunteers trying to help victims of Central Texas fires: 
1. The American Red Cross of Central Texas accepts donations and offers volunteer opportunities.
If you donate online, you can select “American Red Cross of Central Texas,” if you want your donation to stay in our area. You can do the same by phone or when you mail in a check.
2. Austin Community Foundation’s Central Texas Fire Relief Emergency Fund -  There are many smaller organizations in the community that are helping the victims of the Central Texas fires. The ACF fund will allow those  organizations – especially those that can’t spend a lot of time raising money and accepting donations -  a source for funding. ACF is working with Austin Telco and the Austin American-Statesman to publicize this fund.
Donate online now (www.austincf.org/wildfirerelief) or call ACF at 512-472-4483. You can even mail in a check:
Austin Community Foundation
4315 Guadalupe St. Ste. 300
Austin, TX 78717
If you’re a nonprofit and would like to apply for funds, please contact MariBen Ramsey at 512-472-4483. Funds will be distributed as they become available.
3. The Austin Disaster Relief is a 501(c)(3) charity. It is a network of churches across Central Texas that works with City of Austin, Red Cross of Central Texas and others to offer shelter, volunteers, donations and more.
“ADRN is developing a church network that will organize, mobilize and connect the body of Christ and its resources, in the event of a natural or man-made disaster.”
4. KUT.org lists a number of places where you can drop off clothing donations.
5. Capital Area Food Bank is accepting donations of food, specifically those that don’t require a can opener.
6. KVUE.com lists many ways you can help the victims of fires across Central Texas. Donations and volunteers are needed for Catholic Charities, The Oasis, Austin Christian Fellowship and more.
7. GivingCity contributor, Shelley Seale, put a great list of organizations accepting donations and volunteers. See her story here: http://austin.culturemap.com/newsdetail/09-05-11-22-47-central-texas-fires-bring-loss-and-devastation-how-you-can-help/
8. Texas Wildfire Relief Fund – supports volunteer fire fighters in Texas.
9. Lutheran Social Services is also accepting donations.
“In the short-term, LSSDR is addressing the immediate, emergency needs for food/shelter/clothing of individuals and families affected.  This will be an ongoing response through congregations until all are served or until the funds run out.
In the long-term, and as funds allow, LSSDR will assist low-income families without insurance who lost their homes and possessions, as well as renters stripped of their belongings.  Spiritual and emotional care will be available to those in need of support.”
10. From our friends at H-E-B:
“H-E-B plans to launch a disaster relief donation campaign for Austin-area stores to send relief through the Red Cross to the impacted areas all across Central Texas. Customers will have the opportunity to add a donation of $1, $3 or $5 to their total grocery bill when they check out, or at the Business Center. One hundred percent of the donations will go to the American Red Cross and its emergency relief efforts in Central Texas.
Additionally, H-E-B will donate $50,000 to the Red Cross to help the communities of Bastrop, Steiner, Spicewood and others impacted by the fires.”
11. And from our other friends at United Way Capital Area:

“Supporting families in crisis is easy with a one-time gift to the UWCA Central Texas Wildfire Relief Fund. Give online at www.unitedwaycapitalarea.org. UWCA will direct 100 percent of the donations to a variety of non-profits providing a range of services for immediate and long-term relief related to the wildfire crisis.”
12. Just heard from our new friends at Whole Earth Provision Company that they are accepting donations at the cash registers of all their stores. Please make sure to give to the Austin Community Foundation Central Texas Fire Relief Emergency Fund when you make a purchase.
13. Emmis Radio is accepting donations of goods at their stations and at several Rudy’s locations all over town. They’re looking for things like diapers, bandages, Tylenol, bedding… take a look at their full list online.
 
Know any more? Contact me at mwilliams@austincf.org or call me at 512-472-4483.
You can also add to the Facebook post about this: http://www.facebook.com/givingcityaustin?ref=ts
 
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Disaster Relief, Giving opportunities, Volunteering opportunities | Tagged: Austin, bastrop, can, Central Texas, clothing, disaster, donate, fires, food, help, leander, Red Cross, steiner ranch, volunteer, wildfire | Leave a Comment » 



Did I go too far?

Posted on August 24, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

I’m either doing something right, or I’m doing it totally wrong.
We all hope our children absorb some of what they see their parents do. I wouldn’t want him to take in everything, of course, but the idea is to be a role model, I think.
One of the things I’d love my children to absorb from my husband and me is our attitude about sharing, giving and philanthropy. But more importantly, I want them to be able to empathize with others, appreciate what they have, treat others the way they want to be treated and learn what friendship and family mean.
But sometimes kids absorb that stuff in heartbreaking ways. Last night, I noticed my 7-year-old son softly crying to himself. We’ve just moved, and he’s started a new school and a new grade, so I thought the stress of that was getting to him.
I asked him what was wrong. He said, “Mom, it’s just that I’m so happy here. I have friends and parents who care about me, and I was just thinking about those children in the shelter with no parents and nobody to love them.”
Seriously, this is what he said. He is a sensitive child. Then he really started crying.
I reassured him that, no, maybe they don’t have their parents. But they do have adults who love and care for them, who keep them safe and happy. He asked if we could donate our money to help those children, so they could buy toys or clothes.
I mean, could you just crawl under the stairs?
I told him, of course we would. I’d told him about the fund we are starting at the Austin Community Foundation. It’s just about $3,000, but we hope to contribute to it and help it grow so that we can make bigger and bigger donations in the future.
We’d talked about the fund as a family. I’d told them that we – as a family – had to decide who we wanted to help. We decided on children without parents and pets without homes. That might change in the future, but for now I think helping those two groups would give my children the most satisfaction.
Still, I didn’t mean for my son to take it in like that. I felt terrible. Yes, I’ll probably buy him a new stack of Pokemon cards (you have to have a 7-yo boy to understand) to try to make up for it, but I feel like I should also take it easy on the talk about the needs and suffering of others. Then I’ll make sure he knows about – and is thanked for – his donation to help those kids.
(He’s a good boy.)
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Children's Services, What it's like to give |  1 Comment » 



One baby, seven charities

Posted on August 16, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

In 2009, we ran a story in GivingCity Austin #4 about the State Employes Charitiable Campaign. In it there was a sidebar by Gretchen Willard, a state employee.
Before the birth of her child, she knew little about the organizations that would save her baby’s life. Now Willard is one of the volunteers who helps run the campaign in Austin.
Her story is an example of how each of us is likely to be the beneficiary of some form of charity at some time in our lives. And an example of how your support of these organizations makes a difference.
On January 16, 2002, I was only 26 weeks pregnant, I went into labor. It was too soon!
I was immediately started on steroid injections (developed by March of Dimes) to help the baby’s lungs. On January 20, our daughter, Destinee, was born. She was 12 1/4 inches long and weighed 1 pound 10.25 ounces.
During her first week in the neonatal intensive care unit at Seton Medical Center in Austin, our daughter received her very first book from Capital Area Reach Out and Read. She’s seven years old now and still reads this book every day.
Her bills from being in the neonatal intensive care unit totaled $2.5 million, which was covered by private insurance, Medicaid and the Seton Fund. Luckily our extended family had a place to stay at Ronald McDonald House while they were in town to support us.
Once Destinee was able to come home, we were happy to find help through DARS’ Pride Program. They helped with testing and therapy to make sure our daughter would be healthy in the future. She is now working with Easter Seals Central Texas for speech therapy and United Cerebral Palsy of Texas for the little things she still has to work through.
All in all she is a very bright and blessed seven-year-old, and we as a family could not have done this without each and every person who supports these organizations. We thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Children's Services, Health Care, Learning opportunities, What it's like to need |  Leave a Comment » 



End-of-year givers = opportunity!

Posted on August 12, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

It goes without saying that we should be generous all year round. But nonprofits shouldn’t take it personally if donors and volunteers seem to only show up around the holidays. 
Some of these people might focus on one cause most of the year, then get extra generous in December. Or they may volunteer at their school or church all year long and decide to take on more hours outside those venues around the holidays. 
Or they may be people who just don’t think about it all year. Not that they’re greedy, just that it doesn’t occur to them that there are needs and they can help. We’ve all lived inside our bubbles from time to time. 
The burden is on nonprofits. If you only get these people at the end of the year, take advantage of having their attention. Make it a great experience. Say “thank you” in a creative way. Reach out to them with your needs and let them know about other opportunities to give back during the other 10 months of the year. 
It’s almost time. Get your welcome mats ready!
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Uncategorized |  Leave a Comment » 



New! GivingCity Austin #8 Featuring The Guide to Great Fundraising Events

Posted on July 27, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

 

 
 
THE SUMMER 2011 ISSUE IS READY
Start reading the
new issue now.

 
 
 
 
 
 
LOOK WHAT’S INSIDE: click the links to go directly to that page

FEATURES
The Guide to Great Fundraising Events Experts weigh in on what’s hot, what’s in and what works
A Little Story About Big Dreams A small donation makes a big difference in the life of a small Austin family
How Food Stamps Work How one family makes every dollar stretch, but still comes up short.
ALSO INSIDE
Why I Give: 
Suzi Sosa and her innovative new idea for saving nonprofits
Update: 
Austin Youth River Watch An after-school program for under-served teens – and 100% of them graduate
5604 Manor A community built for integration from the ground up
Shave for the Brave How mothers of kids with cancer fight back
Going Up Day What our youth needs from us to survive bullying
Austin Business Giving Back How BuildASign.com grew by giving signs away
The Worst Hard Times How Food stamps work – and how they don’t
Happening Now:
I Live Here, I Give Here’s The Big Give
Ballet Austin’s Fete and Fete-ish
The Arc of the Capital Area’s Building Bridges
Give Better:
How to have a school supply drive
Get to know African-American connectors
CALENDAR Summer fundraising events from AustinSocialPlanner.com

 

 
Thanks to the Austin Community Foundation and the Seton Foundations for their generous support.
Pick up a print version! Contact us at 512-472-4483 Please share GivingCity Austin with your friends!

Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: About the magazine, Creative fundraising, Events, Good Causes, Interview, Opportunities, State of Austin Philanthropy, The business of nonprofits, Uncategorized, Volunteering, What it's like ... | Tagged: Austin, austin charity, Austin nonprofit, Austin philanthropy, basic needs, Central Texas, charity, community, community service, donate, East Austin, event, fundraising, givingcity, homeless, housing, how to, hunger, leadership austin, philanthropy, poverty, volunteer, volunteer opportunities in Austin, Young Professionals | Leave a Comment » 



New space for your next nonprofit event

Posted on July 8, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

I received a message from a reader today. Thought those of you planing events would like to know about her offer:
From elizabeth@ctcinternational.org
I’d like to let you know about CTC International (http://www.ctcinternational.org/),  a local nonprofit that works with a community in Kenya to facilitate  holistic community development, and our new Austin office/event space.
Over the past two years we have been building a bridge between the  Austin community and a small town called Maai Mahiu in Kenya. In April  of this year we made the move from our last headquarters in a garage  office to a beautiful house and garden venue just two blocks East in  downtown Austin. We saw this as an opportunity for CTC become more  involved in the fabric of the local community by contributing a meeting  location for organizers of community-development initiatives and a venue  for charitable events.
We are dubbing it the CTC Garden Headquarters, located at 1102 E. Cesar  Chavez. Along with hosting our own events and renting it to private  clients, we would like to invite the Austin nonprofit  event-coordinating community to make use of our space for charitable  functions. Any money raised from these ventures subsidizes our rent here  and funds our team on the ground in Africa.
Here are some photos from recent events and fundraisers in our garden:
Rachel Ray’s SXSW Hangout http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10150102443246496.274245.83048466495
Fast Society’s SXSW Party
http://www.fastsociety.com/sxsw/
CTC’s Africa Sunsets Monthly Happy Hour
http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10150206588046496.308086.83048466495
CTC’s Garden Brunch for Kenya
http://www.smilebooth.com/events/ctc-garden-brunch-funday/
Feel free to stop by M-F 9am-5pm and talk with some of our employees,  meet for lunch at Lock Down Tacos (our on site food trailer), host an  event planning session or just enjoy some quiet time in the garden!
We hope that you and your group join us by sharing our beautiful space  and help connect the many amazing local and international nonprofits to  the thousands of caring Austin residents.
Here is our Location One sheet (http://www.ctcinternational.org/events) with pictures of the space.
Please do not hesitate to contact me about any details concerning hosting your next event here.
Thank you and we look forward to working together with you!
Liz Leverson
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Creative fundraising, Events, Learning opportunities, The business of nonprofits |  Leave a Comment » 



Black in Austin

Posted on July 8, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

I have to share this outtake from an interview I did with the great Pamela Benson Owens. Pam is a business owner, a nonprofit advocate and fundraiser, a wife and a mother of two. She’s also African American.  
She’s served on many a board an committee, often as “the token,” as she describes it. She gets frustrated. 
She told me this story about two weeks ago. 
“What are the challenges in the community? Last month, I was walking my kid in the stroller. And this person comes up to me and says, ‘That is the cutest baby ever! Does she have a father?’
Pam says, “Sometimes you’re minding your own business. Then you get something like that, and you say, ‘What was that? Did that just happen?’” 
Think it’s hard to be black in Austin? 
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Uncategorized |  2 Comments » 



What art can do, and how you can help

Posted on July 2, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

Stephanie, a local artist.
This is Stephanie. She’s an artist in Austin whose work you might have seen at a recent fundraiser or at a the Cool Family Gallery on Burnet Road.
At least once a week, she spends almost an entire day painting, with the help of teachers and the support of a whole community of artists working alongside her at The Arc of the Arts Studio. Her developmental disability doesn’t keep her from creating meaningful, beautiful pieces that help her communicate her feelings to whomever takes a moment to study her work.
Stephanie’s family pays $20 a day for Stephanie to attend the studio and receive coaching from trained artist volunteers. Her work and others’ is then displayed in the Cool Family Gallery. Anyone can purchase the art. You can find many piece of colorful, abstract art for around $30 each. Every artist gets a percentage of what they sell.
You can also commission Stephanie or any of the other artists to create a piece, and in fact, many local businesses and nonprofits have commissioned art for the lobbies or offices.
Another way you can support Stephanie and the arts program is by donating art supplies. The teachers take advantage of just about any kind of paints, paper, canvases and even recyclable materials.
They also have a wonderful Gratitude Tree, with each major donor receiving a hand-painted leaf to honor their generosity.
It also helps just visit the gallery and view their work. GivingCity Austin will have our next launch party at The Arc of the Arts Studio and Gallery. It’s a beautiful space. Last month, I visited Randi Knight, director of development, at the gallery and I can’t stop thinking about how it felt to be there, even as a visitor. Knight told me, “It’s just a happy place.”
Visit the gallery and learn more about the program by browsing the blog.
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Creative fundraising, Education/Training, Giving opportunities, Learning opportunities, Volunteering opportunities | Tagged: adults, ARC, Art, artist, Austin, Burnet, Cool Family, developmental, disabilities, Gallery, studio | Leave a Comment » 



Why? Because we like you.

Posted on June 23, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

I have loved magazines in a slightly obsessive way since as long as I can remember.
In college, I knew exactly what I wanted to do: Work on a magazine in New York City. I had no money, no contacts, no prospects when I moved to New York City, but I got to work on a couple of nationally distributed niche magazine alongside some of the finest magazine talent in the world because it’s the magazine capital of the world and that’s where you go.
When I moved to Austin, the magazine opportunities were much fewer. I could take a major pay cut at $23,000 a year and be “assistant editor” (even though there was no other editor) at a local Austin magazine for 90 hours a week, or I could get a nice job at an unknown magazine, make a decent salary and freelance like nuts.
I took the nice job… and took on lots of other writing projects, too. Everything. I wrote brochures for Embraer, white papers about magnetic levitation for Wiley, travel stories from my apartment for NurseWeek, construction stories for Project Management Institute … I was writing a lot. Some of it didn’t stink, all of it paid.
Then I got this job working for a lawyers association. Some of the lawyers didn’t stink. In fact, many of them were really good people – and they wanted to be philanthropists. They just didn’t know how.
So I’d been writing for a while, with the purpose of explaining things to readers. I thought: “What if we were to start a magazine that did nothing but explain local philanthropy to people? Help them understand it, find their place in it? Really inspire them to step up and help someone! I could start with a blog first, it’s free! I could use that Twitter thing to get people to read the blog! This could work!”
I was bored, you know. Nothing to do. Just one child, another on the way, a full-time job… kinda twiddling my thumbs at night, you know? Can’t stand TV, anyway. And Torquil, an art director full time and a dad full time, thought it was a good idea, too. And he was similarly fidgety. So we did it.
We made and continue to make magazine content that helps people. I truly believe that. Is it the best publishing business model ever? Hell no! It’s a really, really bad business model! It’s impossible! We paid for it out of our personal, meager checking accounts. We’re idiots and suckers.
Sure, we came up with a business plan. And it was a sound one provided we could somehow get our hands on $25,000 first. (See? Idiots!) I’m not going to lie: We struggled. We learned everything the hard way. So to anyone else out there with an idea to start an Austin magazine about local philanthropy, BACK OFF.
Kidding! Actually, I want to help. People ask to “pick my brains” all the time, so I don’t mind throwing out some free advice. Here’s what you should do:

 Ask your parents for money. Get them to “invest” in the magazine.
 Meet someone rich enough to finance it. Make him think it’s his idea. Walk his dog, buy his wife’s “art” and let his 20-year-old son be “creative director.”
 Run up your credit cards printing and distributing it. Put your family in financial dire straits.
 Lose the whole “philanthropy” idea no one cares about and write about restaurants, food, fashion, bars, clothes, drinking and restaurants.
 In fact, focus less on pesky content altogether and hire more marketers, sales girls and business-development types. Get your wife to be the assistant publisher so she can take her friends to lunch and expense it.
 Tell contributors you are going to pay them. Then don’t.
 “Hire” girls who don’t need the money to make the magazine as “interns.” Make them work 20-hour days for the privilege.
 Spend all your money on PR. Promote yourselves desperately, forcefully and without remorse.
 Lie and make promises you can’t keep to advertisers that prey on greed, vanity and laziness – liposuction, loft apartments, teeth whitening, carpeting for your garage, doggie daycares, etc.
 Attend every party in town, make sure to get photographed, tell the hostess she looks AMAZING, and otherwise make an ass of yourself.

(Okay, I’m having a bad day. Local magazine publishers don’t do these things, as far as you know.)
My point is … I am a social entrepreneur, and I’m learning as I go. In the meantime, I get to do what I love for an organization I love and readers I love. And now advertisers I love. And it all helps other people. (There, you just read my new business plan.)
Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: About the magazine |  2 Comments » 



“Guide to Great Events” – Second date added!

Posted on June 20, 2011 by givingcityaustin				

Whoa.
I was going to post information about GivingCity’s June 29 panel discussion: “How to Have a Great Fundraising Event,” but it filled up in less than a day.
And with the waiting list still growing, I’ve been encourage to add a second date for the panel. Right now, we’re looking at THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, for the second event. This will likely be a “lunch n learn” style event as well, so please pencil us in for that date and time.
To reserve a spot for the August 25 event (exact time and panel to be determined), please grab a “I’m interested in the Aug 25 event” ticket below:

Online Ticketing for GivingCity Austin: The Guide to Better Fundraising Events powered by Eventbrite

Share this:EmailFacebookPrintShareRedditDiggStumbleUpon

Filed under: Creative fundraising, Events, Learning opportunities, The business of nonprofits | Tagged: auction, Austin, ballroom, caterer, community, event, fundraiser, fundraising, Gala, happy hour, live, party, planning, reservations, silent, ticket | Leave a Comment » 


Next Page »




 

 Join us on Facebook!

Follow us on Twitter

Anyone can raise money for the Central Texas Wildfire Fund. Our form can embed on your site. Call Monica 472-4483. http://ow.ly/6p2rE 3 days ago
So many donations coming! Now Whole Earth Provisions taking - and MATCHING - donations to this fund. #centraltxfires http://ow.ly/6nWHH 4 days ago
Getting calls and emails by the minute from people raising money, collecting goods, looking to donate, volunteer. Overwhelming how much... 4 days ago


Get Help


Search the database of community services online or call 2-1-1 to speak to a representative. Habla espanol.

 Recent Posts

How to help victims of Central Texas fires
Did I go too far?
One baby, seven charities
End-of-year givers = opportunity!
New! GivingCity Austin #8 Featuring The Guide to Great Fundraising Events


 austinsocialplanner.com
57th Annual Jewel Ball October 15, 2011UT Football vs. Oklahoma State [HOME] October 15, 2011LifeWorks Executives And Professionals (LEAP) presents Casino Royale October 15, 20112011 AYC FAVE Awards October 15, 2011Austin Symphony Holst’s “The Planets” October 14, 2011
 Charity Chat
New homeless shelter leader fired after three monthsWeekend event to help animalsAustin group one of many helping African famine victims
 United Way Capital Area
United Way Capital Area Partners with Businesses to Raise $16.5 MillionCelebrating Austin mentorsMLK Day of Service provides more than 7,500 volunteer hours to the community
 Greenlights for Nonprofits
Congratulations to Applied Materials’ Board Advancement GranteesShare Online Engagement – Build a Social Media DashboardCollaboration: It’s a stick-up!
Blogroll

Austin Bar Association
Austin Chapter of Women in Radio and Television
Austin Groups for the Elderly
Austin Young Lawyers Association
Capital Area Food Bank
Caritas
Center for Community Based & Nonprofit Organizations/Nonprofit Austin
DiscoverHope Fund
El Buen Samaritano
Give Realty
Greenlights for Nonprofit Success
Habitat Young Professionals
Hands On Central Texas
I Live Here, I Give Here
Impact Austin
Keep Austin Beautiful
Latinitas
LifeWorks
Lone Star National MS Society
Make-A-Wish Foundation of Central and South Texas
Manos de Cristo
Meals on Wheel and More BLOG
Mobile Loaves & Fishes
One House at a Time
Operation Turkey
People’s Community Clinic
SafePlace
Shoes for Austin
Shoulder the Cross
Southwest Key
Spark of Caritas
Special Olympics Texas
Texas Association of Nonprofit Organizations
The Long Center
Theatre Action Project
Town Lake Animal Shelter
United Way Capital Area


 






Get a free blog at WordPress.com Theme: Digg 3 Column by WP Designer.











Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			




