New Research Suggests Swing Towards Alternative Investments | Release Wire



BlogHelpPitching TipsWriting Tips








New Research Suggests Swing Towards Alternative Investments
September 8, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Business, Investment



Research consultants Alternative Asset Analysis (AAA) have announced that new figures showing a major swing towards alternative assets is a positive indicator for the industry as a whole.
Boston, MA, USA, September 07, 2011 — Research consultants Alternative Asset Analysis (AAA) have announced that new figures showing a major swing towards alternative assets is a positive indicator for the industry as a whole.
Cogent Research has found that three quarters of retail financial advisers have steered their clients towards alternatives, with each client having an average of 11 per cent of their portfolios invested in non-traditional assets.
These alternative assets can include anything from hedge funds, and private equity, to forestry and real estate. AAA welcomes the news that 80 per cent of those questioned said that diversifying their portfolios was the main reason behind their decision to opt for alternatives, and the same number also said alternatives help them to reduce the risk held in their portfolios.
One respondent, Erin Scannell of Johnson Scannel, explained that the clients themselves are becoming increasingly interested in alternative investments: “Most of our clients are retired and more of them seem anxious with the general stock market so they are using more and more alternatives.”
AAA’s analysis partner, Anthony Johnson, said that it was this move towards the investors themselves putting pressure on their fund managers to opt for alternative asset classes over traditional assets that is the most positive sign. He explained, “As an alternative investment advocacy group, we welcome the results of this study, which shows that retail financial advisers and their clients are moving more of their money into non-traditional assets.”

AAA supports investment in ethical projects that also offer portfolio diversification, such as the sustainable forestry projects run in Brazil by firms like Greenwood Management. Mr Johnson said, “When looking at alternative assets, it’s vital to consider social and ecological factors and ensure that the project is responsible from both these angles.”
Some 22 per cent of the report’s respondents said they do not include alternatives in their portfolios. However, almost half of these said that this was because they lacked understanding of the assets and options available to them.
About Alternative Asset Analysis:
The remit of Alternative Asset Analysis is to analyse and provide news on the global performance of a wide range of alternative asset classes including, but not restricted to, commodities, real estate, forestry, foreign exchange, hedge funds, private equity and venture capital.
Contact:
Anthony Johnson
Alternative Asset Analysis
71 Commercial St
Boston, MA 02109-1320
617-939-9596
info@alternativeassetanalysis.com
http://www.alternativeassetanalysis.com
News from ReleaseWire.
 
Comments Off Tags: aaa, alternative asset analysis, alternative assets, alternative investments, alternatives

 
Author: staronepr
                      This author has published 502 articles so far. More info about the author is coming soon.                    


Comments are closed.

More News From ‘Business’

AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
Canadian Green Forestry Investment Welcomed by FRA
The Number of Top Retailers Using Abandoned Basket Email Has Doubled
Top Marcellus Shale Resource Releases Updated Analysis of Industry Related Legislation
According to Ovum, AuraPortal Is Well Above Other BPM Providers in the International Market
Introducing FREE BEAUTY: Free Samples, Great Products, Exclusively From Organic Spa Magazine
New Hit Reality Show Follows San Diego Company
HK Pacific – Non-Farm Payrolls Critical for QE3 Decision.
Fire Retardant Spray Used in the World Trade Center Reconstruction Is Available for Homeowners
Text Message Marketing With Qittle.com to Increase Retail Sales






Submit Press Release


Username:



Password:



Remember Me



Register | Lost your password?


Advertise Here Contact us for information about advertising with ReleaseWire.

Useful Links







Most Popular



100%
Election Results 2011 website released – Get live updates of assembly elections


86%
Enterprise mobility market: Global Forecast & Industry Analysis (2010 - 2015)


72%
Global Solar Photovoltaic Market Analysis and Forecasts to 2020


55%
"A Good Man is Hard to Find" Returns to The Stage in 2011 – Live and On DVD


38%
73 Year Old Wins Miss Cougar America 2011 Title





Recent Releases

Authors Pose the Question Are We Poisoning Our Kids With Food?
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Books, Health & Fitness, Medical & Health

Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. New York, NY – September 12, 2011 — Today, nearly one-in-three children is overweight or obese. Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. Diabetes is showing up in children as young as …



The Journey Towards an HIV Cure Has Already Started
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Medical & Health

The time between now and the day when a cure for HIV is found is rapidly decreasing. What didn’t seem possible a generation ago is now within striking distance. At this point, it’s not a matter of if an HIV cure will be found, but when. Toulon, France, September 11, 2011 — The time between …



AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Business, Investment

Alternative Asset Analysis has backed forecasts that Brazilian real estate sector is poised for further expansion, boosting the foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country. Boston, MA, USA, September 11, 2011 — The Brazilian real estate sector is expected to help boost the foreign direct investment (FDI) in Brazil even further, said Anthony Johnson of …



Darwinian Evolution Revised for Human Society and Machines
September 12, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment, Books

The Theory of Evolution addresses biological changes over billions of years. A similar process, social evolution, applies to human societies. Now, another evolution has started: machine evolution. Which will win? Jacksonville, FL, September 12, 2011 – The theory we call Darwin’s Theory of Evolution, is actually a theory about the biological development of “life forms” …



Les Paul Is Dead. Now DOJ Is Trying to Kill Off Gibson Guitars as Well
September 11, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment

A recent Department of Justice raid on the headquarters of Gibson Guitars puts in question the fate of Gibson Guitars. The raid also may have serious implications for musicians and their instruments, throughout the United States. Nashville, TN, September 09, 2011 (Straight Line PR) — This story, incredible as it may seem, is true. It …



 


 

RSS feed
    © 2011 Release Wire



