Crews make progress against deadly wildfire in Texas








Make this page my home page


Drag the home icon in this panel and drop it onto the "house icon" in the tool bar for the browser
Select "Yes" from the popup window and you're done!







The Push to Talk network you want when you need it most. 




Set as Home Page
My Profile
Register
Help




User Name:

Password:


















Search




















































Crews make progress against deadly wildfire in Texas














Emergency Management Operations






 Resources


Best Practices in Emergency Services
City of New Orleans Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
FEMA's Emergency Management Institute
HS LEADER 
International Association of Emergency Managers
Joint CONUS Communications Support Environment (PDF)
National Incident Management Organization Implementation Task Group (NIMO)
National Information Exchange Model (NIMS)
National Institute of Standards and Technology
State Homeland Security / Emergency Management Organizations

All Resources


Most Popular Articles


TSA chief: optimist about everything but terror
Heart attack damage weakened by new technology on board Fla. ambulance
9/11 memorial to include sophisticated waterfall system
9/11 marked with tributes and tears
Video: NASA footage shows 9/11 from space

All Popular Articles

Emergency Management Operations Tips


RODOS for nuclear emergency management
Technology goals for smaller agencies
How do responders prepare for ICS/UC implementation?
People over gadgets in hospital planning
Unified point of access for emergency organizations

More tips

Emergency Management Operations Videos


International Association of Emergency Managers: Intro to IAEM
AristaTek Demo of PEAC-WMD 2007 Software

More Videos




Emergency Management Operations Article










September 07, 2011





		Email

		Print
Comment Bookmark







Crews make progress against deadly wildfire in TexasRecent fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit


By Jim Vertuno and Michael Graczyk The Associated Pressvideo platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo playerTrouble viewing the video? Download Flash player hereBASTROP, Texas — Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-fueled blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving a trail of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.At least two people have died in the wildfire, which has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin, the state capital.Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday, and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts."Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop."Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons (5,600 liters) of lake water at a time also helped.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres (400 hectares) Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles (65 kilometers) northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) fire burned in heavy timberland.___Copyright 2010 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.Michael Graczyk reported from Houston. Also contributing to this story were Associated Press reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin, Paul Weber in San Antonio, and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop.









You must enable JavaScript in your browser to view and post comments.




















The comments below are member-generated and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of Homeland1 or its staff.








Be the first to comment on this article.





























Most Commented Articles

Feds plan solutions for people stuck in FEMA trailers
Colorado River water users headed for dire straits
Report: US not doing enough against gun smuggling
Research challenges link between quick emergency response and survival chances
Too Many, Too Often: Putting Fort Hood in perspective
Civilian disaster scenario training: Why and how we should do it
National Disaster Preparedness Training Center opens in Hawaii
Colo. man's underwear invention blocks airport security scans












Back to previous page


































About Homeland1
|
Advertise
|
Contact Us
|
Member Support
|
My Profile
|
Privacy Policy
|
Sitemap











Homeland1
News & Video
Popular Products
Popular Topics
Resources
Community



Homeland1 is revolutionizing the way in which the homeland security community finds relevant news, identifies important training information, interacts with each other and researches product purchases and suppliers. It has become the most comprehensive and trusted online destination for homeland security professionals worldwide.


Announcements
Columnists
Exclusives
News
Newsletters
News Reports
RSS Feeds
Videos


Duty Gear
Mobile Computers
Night Vision
PPE
Robotics
Software
Vehicles
All Products


Airport Security
Bioterrorism
Emerging Technology
Legal
Mass Casualty
Public Health
Volunteers
All Topics


Events
Grants
Jobs
Partners
Product Deals
Registration
Sponsors
Training


EMS
EMT Exams
Fire Grants
Fire News
Paramedic Jobs
Tactical EMS

Follow Us














  Visit other Homeland1 Network Sites:
		
BLUtube
Calibre Press
CopsOnline
CorrectionsOne
EMS1
EMSGrantsHelp
FireGrantsHelp
FireRescue1
Homeland1
LawEnforcement.com
PoliceOne
 PoliceOne Academy
PoliceOne Books
Police Recruiter
Praetorian Group
Street Crimes



	Copyright © 2011 Homeland1.com. All Rights Reserved. 













