About us: Voice of Russia






Choose language






 
Russia
 


 



 
News
 


 



 
Radio
 


 



 
About us 
 


 




 

RSS








POL
ALB
BEN

BUL
CZE
DAR

FIN
GRE
HUN

JPN
KOR
KUR

NOR
PST
PER

POR
RUM
SRB

SLO
SWE
MON

TUR
PAK
VNM




RUSENGGERCHIFRE


SPAHINARBITA
other





Schedule

On air now
USA Live




The Voice of Russia radio website





 
World
 


 



 
Commentary
 


 



 
Video
 


 



 
History
 


 








“1520 space” to extend to ViennaUnder the protection of an angelRight on scheduleRussian hockey stars talk of Yaroslavl air disasterIslamists will do well in Arab World election, expert says 






Drag and drop the image on Home icon in your browser toolbar, then select "yes" in pop-up window














About us

 









 

About us
The Voice of Russia was the first radio station to broadcast internationally. On the air since October 29th 1929, VOR has been shaping Russia’s image worldwide and introducing Russia to the world and highlighting its opinions on global events. Today VOR broadcasts to 160 countries in 38 languages for a total of 151 hours per day, on short and medium waves, in the FM band, via satellite and through global mobile communications network. In 2003 VOR was among the major international radio broadcasters to launch daily broadcasts to Europe in Digital Radio Mondiale. VOR programs are broadcast to the USA through satellite channels of the global network, by cable, in the FM band, and through mobile communicatiion links in 16 states. VOR is among the world's top five radio broadcasters which include the BBC, the Voice of America, Deutsche Welle and Radio France International. According to a survey carried out by International Media Help (Switzerland) among radio listeners in 50 countries, VOR is the third in popularity after the BBC and the Voice of America .   VOR broadcasts on the Internet in 33 languages and on its Website which boasts over 500 sections and is visited by people from 140 countries. Visitors can choose from on-line reports, audio, video and multimedia material.    VOR has 109 million listeners in 160 countries. In their opinion Voice of Russia provides a convenient and democratic channel to obtain information about Russia. VOR is a member of the National Association of Television and Radio Broadcasters, the European Broadcasting Union, Digital Radio Mondiale and the Conference of International Broadcasters’ Audience Research. Many Voice of Russia programs have won the Radiomania national award. In 2008 Voice of Russia won the Runet Prize. 






 

Russia//World//Video//Radio//WRN Real Audio//Search


News//Commentary//History//Archive//Our partners

 



© 2005-2011 Voice of Russia


Contact usAbout us


 


All rights reserved. Fully or partially reproduced material must be attributed to the Voice of Russia (a hyperlink should be provided on the Internet). The service may be contacted via world@ruvr.ru. The portal has been developed with the help of Stack Telecom Ltd.





















