lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » October






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Saturday, October 30, 2010
PumpkinMixer

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:25 pm 
 


I don’t often talk about my own projects on Lines and Colors, but sometimes they’re enough fun to be worthy of note. 
PumpkinMixer is my new app for the iPhone and iPod touch. Like my other apps, DinoMixer and MonsterMixer, it was developed with my friend and colleague Leon Stankowski, who created the coding to fit with my design and illustrations, worked with me on the functionality and coordinated the sound.
Similar to the other “Mixer” apps, PumpkinMixer is based loosely on the old Surrealist game of Exquisite Corpse, in which artists would fold over paper and draw three independent parts of a drawing, head, body and legs, without seeing the outcome until all were in place. This concept made its way into popular culture as a children’s game (my friends and I played it in elementary school), and was eventually adapted in publishing as “mix-n-match” children’s picture books (usually spiral-bound, with stiff cardboard pages that are divided in three). 
PumpkinMixer, like DinoMixer and MonsterMixer, is an electronic version of this. In the case of PumpkinMixer, you swipe side to side to swap sets of eyes, noses and mouths, with an extra horizontal band at the top to switch between three backgrounds. Swiping on the iPhone screen vertically switches between pumpkins and swaps out the colors of the animated “candle flame” behind the face cut-outs.
In designing the interface and creating the artwork, which was done digitally in Painter and Photoshop in the same way I draw my webcomic, Argon Zark!, I faced the same challenges I outlined in my post about creating the artwork for DinoMixer. 
Like many illustration projects, this one, in addition to the design and technical challenges, had a deadline. Since PumpkinMixer just made it through the App Store approval process and became available today, one day before Halloween, you might say we just made it; though we obviously had an earlier release in mind. 
On the other hand, you could say we’re just really really early for next Halloween!


Link: PumpkinMixer website
PumpkinMixer in the App Store
My previous post about creating the artwork for DinoMixer
DinoMixer
MonsterMixer

Posted in:  Amusements,Cartoons,Illustration   |   7 Comments »



Chappatte

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:19 am 
 


Patrick Chappatte is a political cartoonist with an international reach, and a personal history to match. Born in Pakistan, Chappatte was raised in Singapore and later Switzerland. He lived in New York for a time and now lives and works in Geneva.
Chappette’s global view comes across in his cartoons for the International Herald Tribune and other publications. 
He is known in particular for his forays into cartoon journalism, in which he visits parts of the world, reporting on the situation there in cartoon or comic strip form. An example is his In the Slums of Nairobi (image above, bottom), which was published in a series on Nairobi in the Global Opinion section of the New York Times website.
Note how the use of cartoon imagery, while it doesn’t lessen the impact of the dire situation, makes for a lower barrier to entry into an uncomfortable subject than stark photographs might have. 
You can see some other examples of his work in this direction on graphicjournalism.net. 
Chappatte explores this increasing trend toward cartoon journalism, along with the impact, influence and role of cartoons in world events, in a fascinating talk on The Power of Cartoons for the TED (Technology Entertainment and Design) conference (you can also view the video on YouTube). He punctuates his comments with some of his cartoons.
You can see more of them on his website (French version here). When looking through his cartoons by topic (drop down menu at right), be aware that most categories have several pages, accessed from small page numbers under the cartoon thumbnails at lower right.
His work has also been published in a number of books.
Despite the difficulties faced by traditional newspapers, and their resultant decisions to abandon much of their original content, like editorial cartoons (brilliant, of course — when cicrculation is dropping, drop the content people find worthwhile), cartoons will continue to play an important part in political and social discourse. 
[Via Digg, via Geeks Are Sexy]


Link: www.globecartoon.com
Graphic Journalism
The Power of Cartoons on TED, on YouTube

Posted in:  Cartoons,Comics   |   Comments »


Friday, October 29, 2010
Learning to draw: where to go from here

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:50 pm 
 

Tim, a Lines and Colors reader, wrote me to say that he had recently become inspired to return to the practice of drawing. He had purchased a copy of Betty Edwards’ Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain (see my post here), and was looking for other books and resources to pursue his interest from there, hopefully with a classical or Renaissance method.
Edwards’ book is an excellent place to start for someone who has a new or rekindled interest in drawing. I frequently recommend it as the book concentrates of the fundamental and most difficult problem adults face in learning to draw, and that is learning to see what is actually before them, and not what they think they see.
I feel her book, however, is lacking the other “half” of drawing, the art of it, the finesse and artistic choices that separate “art” from “just drawing” and that separate the masters from the ordinary. Though she has attempted to address this somewhat in recent editions, there are better sources for pursuing the art of drawing. 
This is not meant to be a comprehensive list, certainly not of drawing books, or even of drawing books and resources that answer the particular question at hand, but a few suggestions drawn (if you’ll excuse the expression) from my personal experience.
A book I will recommend, though it is not specifically related to drawing but to art and art study in general, is Robert Henri’s The Art Spirit.
As for drawing instruction in a classical or Renaissance method, there isn’t a great deal in the way of drawing texts from the Renaissance; techniques were passed down from master to apprentice, rarely committed to writing. Modern representational drawing texts concentrate on Academic teachings, which are derived from principles developed in the Renaissance and subsequent years up to the late 19th Century.
 
The dedicated path:
Classic drawing textbooks (not necessary “Classical”) These two volumes have been standards in art schools in the U.S. for decades. Look for them used online, in used bookstores or on eBay; they’re overpriced and current printings are apparently of poor quality.
A Guide to Drawing, Daniel M. Mendelowitz
Art of Responsive Drawing, Nathan Goldstein
 
The study of drawing:
The Natural Way to Draw: A Working Plan for Art Study, Kimon Nicolaides
If you’re really committed, Kimon Nicolaides has the game plan, but it’s a demanding course of study.
The Practice And Science Of Drawing, Harold Speed
A valuable text, with insights and practical information. There is a full version on Project Gutenberg, though the reproductions leave something to be desired.
 
Other titles:
Charles Bargue and Jean-Leon Gerome: Drawing Course, Gerald M. Ackerman
A 19th Century Academic approach, form a student of master Jean-Léon Gerome
Drawing Lessons from the Great Masters, Robert Beverly Hale
I had the good fortune to have Robert Beverly Hale as my artistic anatomy instructor when I was a student at The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. His teachings have been codified in a series of books, illustrated with selections of old master drawings.
 
The Artist’s Complete Guide to Figure Drawing: A Contemporary Perspective on the Classical Tradition, Anthony Ryder
See my post on Tony Ryder, and here
Classical Drawing Atelier: A Contemporary Guide to Traditional Studio Practice, Juliette Aristides
A modern take on Academic techniques
 
The gentle path
Keys to Drawing, Bert Dodson
Keys to Drawing with Imagination: Strategies and Exercises for Gaining Confidence and Enhancing Your Creativity, Bert Dodson
Dodson eases you into some of the same techniques and concerns covered by Mendelowitz and Goldstein, with a friendlier approach and less of a brusque college textbook manner. See my review of Keys to Drawing with Imagination
 
Bridgman’s Complete Guide to Drawing from Life, George Bridgman
The Human Figure, John H. Vanderpoel
Put solidity and an understanding of form into your figure drawing with Bridgeman and Vanderpoel.
 
Study master drawings
Look for used books of collections of master drawings, study them and copy from the masters (as they did from previous masters) to understand what they have done with line, tone, space and form. 
Dover Books has many titles with master drawings that are inexpensive new. Though the reproduction is not superb, they are still very good for study and enjoyment.  
150 Masterpieces of Drawing by Anthony Toney
Look for other inexpensive collections like Drawing ideas of the masters: Improve your drawings by studying the masters by Frederick Malins
 
Libraries
Look to your local library for everything mentioned here and more. If you live near a state university, you may find their library open to residents, including borrowing privileges.
Online: 
Line by Line is an introductory drawing course running in weekly installments on the New York Times (see my post here). There are many other online resources that should be the subject of a separate post. 
Studying the real thing: master drawings
Seeing old master, Baroque and 19th Century drawing in person is a treat, inspiring and very instructive. Drawings reveal their subtleties in person even more than paintings. They can’t be kept on display because of light damage, so you have to look for shows.
On the East Coast of the U.S. The Met in NY, Philadelphia Museum of Art and the National Gallery rotate out selections from their collections of works on paper in small dedicated galleries. Look for other major museums to have similar small spaces devoted to works on paper. The Morgan Library in NY often has great drawing shows.
I try to list museum shows of drawings (along with shows of comics, cartoons and illustration) in the right hand column of this blog. Not always up to date or comprehensive (I try), but a place to look.
Studying the real thing: life drawing
This is a directory of life drawing (figure model) open sessions, workshops and other easily accessible classes: Figure Drawing Open Studios, Workshops, and Continuing Education Classes, see my post on the Directory of Figure Drawing Sessions.
Fake it from home: life drawing
Poser, Pose Maniacs and Virtual Pose let you practice life drawing from home. 
The most important things
The most important thing: keep drawing. If it’s not a dedicated course of study, make it a hobby, a habit, a coffee break, a meditation. A quick sketch once a day is better than an elaborate plan of study that you can’t maintain.
Zen of Seeing: Seeing/Drawing as Meditation by Frederick Franck 
This is an essay on drawing, and the special kind of seeing associated with drawing (that I think is at the core of the techniques in Drawing on the Right side of the Brain and other texts) as a form of meditation. 
More importantly, it is instructive in drawing as a practice, an activity, something you do, rather than something you are trying to accomplish. It’s hard to understate what a dramatic difference in frame of mind this seemingly small shift can make.
Drawing for Pleasure, Valerie C. Douet
I mention this title, not because the drawings within are treasures of old master accomplishment, but because of the attitude and approach expressed by the book and its title.
Unless you mess it up by trying too hard, hanging all kinds of expectations and self-measurement on it or make the gross mistake of comparing your current level of ability with others, drawing is, after all, fun.
So my best word of advice? Draw and have fun drawing. The rest will follow.
 
[Addendum: On rereading this post, I wanted to add one of my favorite quotes.
From Howard Ikemoto:
When my daughter was about seven years old, she asked me one day what I did at work. I told her I worked at the college — that my job was to teach people how to draw. She stared back at me, incredulous, and said, "You mean they forget?" ]



Posted in:  Book Reviews,Drawing,Tools and Techniques   |   27 Comments »


Thursday, October 28, 2010
Irving Ramsay Wiles

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:43 pm 
 


The son of Hudson River School painter Lemuel Maynard Wiles,  Irving Ramsay Wiles began study with the great American painter William Merritt Chase at the age of 18. He studied with both Chase and noted painter James Carroll Beckworth at the Art Student’s League in New York, where he would later teach. 
Wiles continued to study with Chase independently at his Tenth Street Studio, painting it’s interior (above, third down) as Chase often did (also here).  Wiles and Chase were to remain friends throughout their lives.
Wiles also continued his studies in Paris at the Académie Julian and in the atelier of Emile Auguste Carolus-Duran, who is noted as John Singer Sargent’s teacher. 
Sargent’s bravura brushwork had a distinct influence on Wiles’ portraiture (and I can’t imagine he was unaware of Cecilia Beaux), while his painterly approach to landscape, interiors and still life owes much to the influence of Chase.
Early in his career, Wiles worked as an illustrator for a number of American magazines. He eventually made a name for himself as a portrait artist. In his later years he allowed himself more time for landscapes and personal subjects.
Wiles is sometimes considered an American Impressionist painter (as is Chase, and sometimes Sargent), though that term is a somewhat vague classification.
There is a selection of his work on the Sotheby’s auction house Sold Lot Archives, some of which have both static and Zoomable versions. The latter allow you to see his brushwork in detail (albeit in a small window). 
Similarly the Smithsonian Museum of American Art has several pieces in Zoomable versions, these can be viewed in a full screen window, including the stunning Russian Tea (above, second from the bottom).
 A new monograph on Wiles, Irving Ramsay Wiles, N.A., 1861-1948: Portraits and Pictures, 1899-1948 by Geoffrey K. Fleming, is due to be published in January.


Link: Irving Ramsay Wiles at The Athenaeum
American Gallery
Encore Editions
Sotheby's (some Zoomable)
Smithsonian Museum of American Art (Zoomable full screen)
Parrish Art Museum, also here, here and here
FAMSF (zoomable)
Metropolitan Museum of Art (Zoomable)
NGA
Terra Foundation (Zoomable)
NCMA
New York Public Library (prints)
Art Renewal
ArtNet
AskArt
Art of the Print
Short bio on Wikipedia
ArtCyclopedia (museum listings and resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »



Drazen Kozjan

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:15 am 
 


Drazen Kozjan was born in Croatia and now lives in Canada, where his family moved when he was young. His career has included visual development and storyboarding for a number of  features, including The Neverending Story, Rupert the Bear, Franklin The Turtle and George Shrinks.
He is also an editorial illustrator and children’s book illustrator, with credits for several books, including The Biggest Girl In the World by Joanne Stanbridge, Diary of a Fairy Godmother by Esm Raji Codell and How to Tame a Bully by Nancy Wilcox-Richards.
Kozjan’s crisp, spare style manages to be evocative without ever being labored. His interior book illustrations are often done with fine line and deft touches of tone. His color illustrations, in contrast, frequently feel like they are line drawings with color fills, but are often accomplished with sharply delineated forms instead of outlines.
He works in pen and ink, marker pens, gouache and watercolor, as well as digital media, specifically Photoshop, in which he colors most of his recent work.
His website has galleries for individual book titles as well as other work.
Kozjan also maintains a blog called Hypnotik Eye, in which he discusses his projects and posts personal sketches and life drawings, along with occasional mentions of other artists from the history of illustration whose work he admires.
You can also see his portrait of Rod Serling on Hey Oscar Wilde, It’s Clobberin’ Time! (see my post on Hey Oscar Wilde, It’s Clobberin’ Time!).
There is a recent interview with Drazen Kozjan on Fuel Your Illustration.


Link: www.drazenkozjan.com
Hypnotik Eye (blog)
Interview on Fuel Your Illustration

Posted in:  Illustration   |   Comments »


Tuesday, October 26, 2010
Glenn Jones

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


Glenn Jones, a freelance illustrator and graphic designer based in Auckland, New Zealand, creates deceptively simple images that always have a twist or hook, usually leaving you smiling if not laughing out loud.
After a 15 year design industry career, Jones found that his T-shirt designs for Threadless.com were so successful that he started his own line, GlennzTees.
His website splits into his personal website, the Genns Tees store, and his Behance Portfolio (also here), along with links to his pages on Facebook, Twitter and Flickr.
You can also find example of his work displayed on Digital Art Empire and Design your way.


Link: www.glennz.co.nz
Personal website
GlennzTees
Behance Portfolio
Digital Art Empire
Design your way

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Monday, October 25, 2010
Titian and the Golden Age of Venetian Painting

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:10 pm 
 


Tiziano Vecellio, commonly called Titian, was one of the great masters of the Italian Renaissance. His reputation spread form his native Venice to Rome and the other art centers of Italy, as well as to Spain and throughout Europe.
His mastery of oil painting, use of color, and strength in all phases of painting — portraits, mythological subjects, allegories, altarpieces and landscapes with figures — along with his painterly approach, made him tremendously influential in his time and well after.
Two of his major works, Diana and Actaeon (above, top) and Diana and Callisto (above, bottom) form the core of a new exhibition at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, Titian and the Golden Age of Venetian Painting: Masterpieces from the National Galleries of Scotland.
The exhibition includes 25 paintings from the Venetian Renaissance, including works by Tintoretto, Veronese and Lotto, that are on loan from the National Gallery of Scotland. 
Titian’s two Diana paintings were commissioned by King Phillip II of Spain, and are related, meant to be seen as a pair. Though they depict two different moments from the life of the mythological figure, they are both tableaux of Titian’s masterful figures, pulled together by the common visual theme of a stream running through them. The two paintings are traveling to the U.S. for the first time.
Though Titian’s youthful experimentation had abated by the time he painted these works in his 60′s, his technical mastery was in full force.
Titian and the Golden Age of Venetian Painting: Masterpieces from the National Galleries of Scotland is on display until January 2, 2011.
For more, see my earlier posts on Titian, and on his Polyptych of the Ressurection.


Link: Titian and the Golden Age of Venetian Painting: Masterpieces from the National Galleries of Scotland, High Museum of Art, to 1/2/11
My previous post on Titian (Tiziano Vecellio), and Titian's Polyptych of the Ressurection

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Friday, October 22, 2010
Chris Ryniak

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:28 am 
 


On his blog Chris Ryniak describes himself as “monster & critter maker”. 
On his website you will find galleries of his monsters & critters both as paintings (also here) and as small scale sculptures in epoxy, glass, vinyl and acrylic.
My timing is a little off with this post, in that his show at MyPlasticHeart in NYC, This Could Get Ugly, is wrapping up on October 24, but you can (at least for the time being) also see a gallery of his sculptures and paintings associated with the show.
Ryniak is a graduate and former instructor of the Ringling School of Art and Design in Florida, and is currently based in Ohio. 
Ryniak’s beasties have a kind of oddball charm, with buggy eyes, fish-like parts and lots of teeth. His paintings, which I believe are primarily done in acrylic, have a decorative dimensional feeling to them, with backgrounds de-emphasized and the textural qualities of the, er… critters, emphasized..
[Via Drawn!]


Link: www.chrisryniak.com
Blog
 MyPlasticHeart gallery

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Sculpture & Dimensional   |   Comments »


Thursday, October 21, 2010
Machiavelli, online graphic novel by Don MacDonald

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:22 pm 
 


Niccolò Machiavelli was a 15th Century Italian diplomat, philosopher and writer, from whose political treatise, The Prince, along with other writings, we get the contemporary usage of his name in the term Machiavellian, referring to the use of deceptive cunning and planning in politics.
Machiavelli himself, however, was hardly an example of the intricate political deceit with which his name is associated, and is largely unknown for his own life and deeds.
Machiavelli is an ongoing graphic novel written and drawn by Don MacDonald that explores the life and times of Machiavelli the man.
MacDonald is posting the story to the web, two pages week. He plans a story of about 170 pages. The home page of the site always opens up on the current page (as of this writing, page 42), but you will want to start with the first page.
He usually annotates each page with comments about Machiavelli’s life and the history and politics of the time, in which he has obviously immersed himself in preparation for telling the story.
The story is drawn in a slightly gestural informal line style with gray washes. MacDonald’s line and tone approach, in which he emphasizes light and shadow, is ideal for the subject and his evocation of 15th Century Florence. 
The site also includes a blog, poster size images that can be printed out for free, and a small selection of his earlier watercolor portrait paintings (above, bottom).
You can check back periodically as he adds to the story, or be notified by one of several methods he mentions on the About page. 
[Via BoingBoing]


Link: Machiavelli
First page
Don MacDonald portrait paintings

Posted in:  Comics,Watercolor and Gouache   |   Comments »


Tuesday, October 19, 2010
Margarita (Hampa Studio)

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:01 pm 
 


Margarita is a beautifully designed, drawn and realized animated short (about 12 minutes long) from Hampa Studio. 
Another example of small independent studios doing high level work, this award winning story follows the adventures of a young princess (lived in the imagination of our actual protagonist, a young girl being read the story by her mother), who sets out to find an evening star that has captured her fancy.
The film is based on a poem by Rubén Dario, and the adaptation works to evoke the poetic images wordlessly, with only sound effects and music to accompany the images.
The animators chose to take the approach of traditional hand-drawn animation, with wonderful backgrounds, delightful character design and fluid, elegant animated motion.
There is a Making Of feature that is actually a bit longer than the film itself, in which the creators discuss the conception of the project as well as their process in bringing it to fruition.
There is also a trailer that was released prior to the final film. In addition to the page on the Hampa Studio site, there is a site for Margarita, that has an English version, as well as a blog.
[Via Animation Blog]


Link: Margarita
Margarita (Making Of), Vimeo
Margarita website
Hampa Studio, in English
Blog

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






