OBAMA ROLLS DICE WITH JOBS SPEECH «  Protégé(e) Magazine





Protégé(e) Magazine





user area

search





Privacy PolicyTerms of ServiceWhat is Protégé(e) Magazine?CEO’s MessageContact Us!
















				FAIL (the browser should render some flash content, not this).

			






 Categories		 
Auto

Cinema

Fashion

Food

Helpful Hints & Tips

Levels of Success

News

Opportunity Pages

Parenting

Relationships

Travel


  Pages		 
CEO’s Message
Contact Us!
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
What is Protégé(e) Magazine?

   		
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


   Paypal		 



  






<<DEATH TOLL OF TEXAS WILDFIRE RISES
REMEMBERING 9/11>>




OBAMA ROLLS DICE WITH JOBS SPEECH

									September 8, 2011 2:02 pm | News 



WASHINGTON- With his plan nationwide address Thursday night on the creation of jobs in America, and with a planned $600 billion of federal income to be deposited to small businesses and construction projects, many officials and critics alike say that president Obama is rolling the dice against the odds. Most Americans recently stated in a poll issued that they disagree with the president’s handling on the economy, and his overall approval rating has slipped to a low of 26%. However, after Monday’s appearance in Detroit at an automotive plant, and after hearing a few details regarding the plan that the president has in mind, his approval rating in the public’s eye has risen to a still low 37%. Tonight, with president Obama planning to organize his plan and address it to the nation, he hopes to restore his image in the public’s eye and set forth a system of job creation and economic certainty that can boost the hopes of consumers and small businesses nationwide.
Other than simply addressing the nation with regards to job creation and government funds investing in construction and infrastructure projects, the president seeks to begin his bid for a re-election with tonight’s speech to a joint session of Congress. Success with the delivery of his speech tonight, depending on the message being conveyed as well, could possibly persuade the House to act on his proposals and put forth the estimated $600 billion in stimulus funds towards small business and the foundations of America’s financial empire. Stephen Hess, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution says, “He better be prepared to say something that people haven’t heard before, or it’s (the speech) going to be counterproductive”. Hess also went on to note, “In many ways he’s run out of options, at least the options that you’d want to advertise before a full-blooded joint session of Congress”. Although some of what the president has planned in his speech tonight was previewed before an audience of blue-collar workers in Detroit on Monday, some officials believe that his message tonight will be highly productive and extremely imperative to the overall success of the country’s financial situation and his re-election bid for the presidency.
Another region of economic woe that the $600 billion stimulus is intended on pursuing, is the failing educational system of the United States. A very hefty percentage of money is to be invested in struggling schools and school buildings that are in desperation and need physically to appear different. Money is to be invested in that mission as well. Still, the one word and topic on the majority of Americans’ minds is jobs. Jobs, jobs, jobs and more jobs are what concerns the people, and many officials think that despite what other objectives the money is to be used for, if the president does not center in on the topic of jobs in his speech, it could spell disaster for his future candidacy. With this in mind, the president and his advisors think that many voters, especially young ones, will see the president after tonight, as a post partisan president. Presenting the thought and premise that the president is more concerned with job growth and progress than he is with political philosophy, ideology, and the partisan games of Washington.
Still, Republicans say that the president is raising the expectations too high. Jay Carney, president Obama’s press secretary said, regarding president Obama’s approach to delivering his plan to the nation and his audience, “He will do it in front of Congress because he is calling on Congress to act.” Carney also went on to say, “We believe that it is imperative for Congress to act. We believe the American people are demanding that Congress act and pay for its actions”.
The Philosophy:
I must agree though that the president has to say something different tonight in his nationwide speech, simply because if he does not the restless public will tire of his rhetoric and then his words will have little effect in the oncoming elections of 2012. Tonight’s speech is not only a bid for his re-election, but also, must be without a doubt, a full-bodied plan, in detail, to curtail the threat of a second recession and place the country’s financial concerns to rest in the private and public sectors. The key to the cure is jobs, and if president Obama does not address the majority of his speech on that topic, and I mean in great detail, then I’m not sure if he can convince anyone in Washington to act on his words. Anyone that has a basic understanding of economics knows that the more money circulating in the economy, the better the outlook is for growth and job creation. The key is to spend, spend, spend, and spend more and more money on programs and policies that will generate a tremendous amount of jobs in our system. The more money spent on job creation, the better. Think about that. Not only will that money be used to employ the average Joe that needs extra money, or someone who is unemployed that definitely needs it, but it will be used to hire construction workers and train normal citizens to work on bridge, road, and infrastructure repair. New projects could be initiated that are needed in this nation that could create new American landmarks that could revolutionize construction and many other industries in this country. So the key is to spend, spend, spend more and more money for small and large business to create jobs. Jobs are the key to success here.
Also higher taxes for the extremely wealthy are essential in the government obtaining the funds it needs to establish these public works programs. Wealthy and affluent individuals can afford to give up those unnecessary weekend excursions to Fiji and Hawaii in order to aid the overall good of this nation. Yes capitalism is powerful, but we all have a social responsibility to this land that we live in, to roll up our sleeves and help one another when the going is tough. Now the Republicans say, “Well how can Obama (Not even giving him the respect of addressing him as president), spend that much money during these harsh economic times? It won’t do the country a bit of good. Just put us in deeper debt”. No listen, the money being spent will be spent to create jobs that will aid in recovery and create new infrastructure in this country. A good example is the construction of the Empire State Building in the winter of 1930. It was freezing cold, people were out of work, and times were much harder financially then during the Great Depression than they are now, but the creation of this new building gave construction workers and ordinary Joes an opportunity to generate income for themselves. The steel was manufactured in Pittsburgh (another policy that needs to be addressed in order to create jobs, keeping American businesses at home and not outsourcing those jobs), and brought to New York City and with the creation of this building, it signified the extreme vitality and vigor that America has towards progression and forward thinking. Sitting right in the heart of Manhattan was an icon to the ambition of this great land, a symbol that stated that we as people will endure and make it through these tough times. It generated jobs, if only temporary, and stands as a landmark not only to America, but to the entire world as a symbol of America’s strength and passion.
These are the kinds of projects needed once again to re-ignite those passions for American greatness and financial success, yet it cannot happen without a huge donation from the government to take action. Another great example of infrastructure and construction based economic recovery projects is the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge, another project generated in the 1930s and stands as a national landmark that generated jobs. We must invest in ourselves once again, stop the outsourcing, and find ways to re-invent our great land for the better. The president knows what he is doing, and Congress knows that he knows what he is doing. Still, the question remains. Will they let him act? Who knows? I believe he needs to take it upon himself and make the impossible possible by laying his plan out clear tonight, and addressing the issue of job creation 100% full throttle and make everyone understand that his intentions are sound and responsible.
-Justin Gibson 
Share/Bookmark






									This entry was posted
																		on Thursday, September 8th, 2011 at 2:02 pm									and is filed under News.
									You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
																			You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
																	





Leave a Reply



Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website












 








Protégé(e) Magazine is proudly powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS)









 










