HR Talk




Translate










No one logged in. Log in





HomeCurrent Responses Volunteer ToolBox Blogs NewsAnimals In Disaster About Us Guest BookCalendarWorld PeaceDonationsHR TalkHR Top PicksHR Map NewsMessage from FoundersLeadershipFriendsAnnual ReportFAQContact UsEvent DiaryBrazilMinot USANebraska USAHurricane IreneWildfiresUS FloodsSign-upSign-InAbout Our VolunteersForumsMap DirectoryHR VideoMobile AppsAnimals In Disaster DigestRedcrossdog_BlogMinot Flood 2011 - Animals in Disaster










Tweet






HR Talk


 
 After the Storm - Now what? 10 Tips 
 Catherine Graham - Monday, August 29, 2011 
 Hurricane Irene is gone, how do you find housing, find aid, find help?  American Red Cross will have aid and shelters, or housing options for victims, whether you are sheltering in place, with friends or in public shelters this event has impacted many people at various levels of damage.  Recovery may take a while visit American Red Cross for Tips after the storm and FEMA for how to cope after a disaster.   We would like to share a few things that may help you navigate the recovery process.

1.	You Survived! First and foremost, be patient, with yourself and others.  You made it through the storm!  Take a walk outside and relieve your stress.   Knowing that you survived the worst is the big thing, the rest of this is all the little stuff. Don't forget to Register that you are safe 

2.	Plan for current needs.  Did you lose your house? Is it still flooded? Does it look like you can’t go home for a while?  You’ll need to think of your long term living arrangements and Red Cross will most likely ask you what your long term plans are.  Think about it, but you have time to make decisions.  For now find an interim living arrangement that works for your family and work on the future one day at a time.  Food, clothing and shelter are key aspects right now and there are many options.  

3.	Take care of small tasks every day, a few may include
a.	Forward your home phone
b.	Forward your mail, you can do that online via  U.S. Post Office
c.	Notify your family where you are
d.	Notify your insurance company where you are
e.	Depending on damage you may need to stop utilities. 
f.	Depending on damage you may need to clean up.  In most situations, cleanup kits and advice are available from your local Red Cross.  Debris removal instructions will come out locally or check your state or local Emergency Management website.  Stay informed on their advice.  You may need to shut off utilities in some impact areas to avoid fires.

4.	Accept help, it’s what it’s there for, don’t think in terms of “charity” think in terms of “humanity” this is a disaster, and friends helping friends is an important step in the healing process for everyone.   So, please accept help.

5.	Employment/Unemployment: Did you lose your ability to work?  Often emergency unemployment may be available in disaster declarations.  This may be approved for your area, keep up to date on the news of the disaster declarations and what’s being offered in your area for your situation.

6.	What about FEMA?  Once aid is activated for your area, application times vary.  Estimates can vary from a few days to a few weeks so you will need to plan for your family’s needs. In the meantime you will need to arrange for food, housing.  Read #8 below for more help.  So when its declared, what type of aid is available from FEMA? Visit their rebuild page.   Some assistance may be available other than housing.  For other types of assistance and more read this helpful link.  Also, Take a moment to get familiar with FEMA’s three step process Once FEMA funds are approved for your area, there are different methods to apply, you can 
a. Locate a FEMA Disaster Recovery Center, 
b. Apply Online
c.	Via Mobile Phone m.fema.gov 
d.	 Call (800) 621-3362 / TTY (800) 462-7585

7.	What about American Red Cross? If you are sheltering in a Red Cross shelter you may be interviewed for potential funds available for victims.  If you are sheltering in place or with friends, call or visit the closest local red cross, you may be eligible for a portion of immediate needs funds.  Often call lines are very busy so it may be more convenient to go in person.  

8.	What about other agencies?  Many Red Cross offices keep a list of other services available in your area, or you can inquire what local community services are available by calling 211 for general information on local nonprofits and faith or non-faith based groups, or call 311 for local government and county services.   Call and ask what services may be available


9.	What did you lose?  When you have a moment to sit and think, make a list of everything you lost, house, vehicles, contents, papers.  It helps you get organized and it will be good for insurance purposes.  If you don't have insurance, its good for tax reasons at the end of the year.
a.	If you need to replace identity papers the local department of transportation can usually help with that.  
b.	If you have insurance it will take a while for the claim to be processed.  Report it as soon as you can.  If you don’t have insurance you might also check with local government services such as, DFACS (Department of family and child services) as some aid may be available there as well.  
c.	Were you receiving checks by mail? If you can’t return home soon, or if you lost your home completely, and  you may want to get online to temporarily forward your mail to a new location.  FEMA will also often send mail to victims because not everyone lost their home so make sure you take care of this in a timely manner.

10.  What about your Cell phone?  Check your plan and rates, you might exceed your minutes
call your company and work with them.  Keep the battery charged; check
settings so they are at the lowest battery usage to save power.  You may
want to occasionally turn it off to save power especially if you’re still
suffering power outages.  

Please take your time, treat all flashing traffic lights as a four-way stop and be patient and helpful to your neighbor on the road and your neighbor in life.  Recovery is a journey, celebrate small victories and we're so very glad you have weathered the storm!!



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Salute to World Humanitarian Day 
 Catherine Graham - Friday, August 19, 2011 
 

There are hundreds and thousands of us working every day around the world.  Everyone in need is entitled to help and its humanitarian workers who get the job done.  "World Humanitarian Day is a celebration of people helping people. Every day humanitarian aid workers help millions of people around the world no matter who they are or where they are. The day recognizes the sacrifices and contributions of those who risk their lives to give others help and hope"  

We salute the humanitarian workers, those in the field and those supporting them from home.  We salute them and are thankful for their dedication.  We thank the humanitarian volunteers of Humanity Road as well who donate their time every day toward supporting those in the field, and those impacted by events.  To read more about World Humanitarian Day visit UN OCHA at http://ochaonline.un.org/whd/




Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 A Local Perspective - Being Prepared in Hawaii 
 Jessie Robinson - Tuesday, August 16, 2011 
 
Be Prepared For A Tsunami In Hawaii
Most visitors to Hawaii do not expect to encounter a tsunami. However, during March 2011, this event caused panic for Hawaii visitors and residents. A monster 8.9 magnitude earthquake followed by a tsunami had moments earlier wiped out the Japanese port of Sendai. Hawaii was in the direct path to receive giant waves of 10 feet. It was a back lash of the 8.9 magnitude earthquake. 
Looking for information is the worst thing to do during a tsunami evacuation. This information is to help individuals find assistance and safety during emergency weather in Hawaii.  Not taking the necessary steps could mean injury or death.  Therefore, safety of life is top priority. The Hawaii Department of Emergency Management (DEM) advises the following actions to be taken.
What to do before the tsunami hits

A significant earthquake can occur in distant areas of the Pacific Basin, i.e., Japan. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) will issue a Tsunami Watch until it can be confirmed or discounted. 
 When a tsunami is confirmed and evacuation is necessary, a warning will be announced over radio through the Emergency Broadcast System in conjunction with the sounding of Civil Defense sirens. Sirens may not be audible in some locations. Keep radio or television on for broadcast notification.
Tsunami Watch: All Watch advisories are your signal to prepare. Monitor radio for Watch upgrade to Warning status or Watch cancellation.
Tsunami Warning: Listen to radio for Civil Defense instructions to evacuate.
Tsunami Evacuation: If you are within an evacuation zone, 

Leave by either walking or driving to a safe area or shelter outside the zone. 
Be aware, however, that steel and/or concrete buildings of six or more stories in height should provide adequate protection if you move to the third floor or above. 
If you are outside the evacuation zones, you are not in danger. To avoid traffic gridlock, you should curtail non-essential travel, avoid roadways in or near the evacuation zones, and do not interfere with evacuation. 
Remain in safe areas until the "All Clear" is announced over the radio. 

Moving to the Safe Zone

Walk out of the evacuation zone to a safe area, or to the nearest shelter.  
Request assistance of nearby friends or neighbors to relocate to areas outside the evacuation zone. 
Take the Bus. Designated city buses will change from normal routing, operate as evacuation shuttles, and pick up evacuees and provide transport to pre-designated tsunami refuge areas.  
Flag the buses down along their adjusted routes and they will take you, without charge, to within walking distance of one of the refuge areas. Use the shuttle buses to assist in your evacuation, but do not rely solely on their availability as accidents or unexpected delays could occur. 
If wave arrival time is approaching and no bus is in sight, move outside the evacuation zones immediately. Also be aware that tsunami evacuations are likely to cause disruptions to all city bus schedules. 


Maps to safe zones
There are over 30 safe zone locations and shelters. Go to http://www1.honolulu.gov/dem/maps.htm  to view specific safe zone maps. All information is taken from the Department of Emergency Management official web site. 
For additional information go to http://www1.honolulu.gov/dem/tsunami2.htm .  Or contact the Department of Emergency Management at (808) 723-8960. 
Other helpful links 
The Pacific Disaster Center tweet alerts available for iPhone, iPod and iPad. The PDC conducts cutting edge research and analysis to aid in greater support of disaster management and humanitarian assistance worldwide. For more information got to http://www.pdc.org  
Disaster Assistance and Recovery center at Keehi Lagoon in Hawaii helps individuals and families in the aftermath of a disaster. Counseling, temporary housing, employment and repairs are some of the services offered. For detailed information and other helpful contacts go to   http://www.scd.hawaii.gov/recovery.html 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Protecting From Solar Storms  
 Catherine Graham - Monday, August 08, 2011 
 A Geomagnetic storm trifecta has the potential to impact alot of people.  What can you do in advance of an oncoming storm?  Storm intensity can vary from having just a beautiful show of Auroraborealis lights to slight radio disturbances, interference with signals, GPS, to even more damaging impacts such as power surges or power failure.   Below are ten tips for you to consider to prepare for a potential Solar Storm.


Get an old fashioned papermap (your GPS might fail) 
- Unplug delicate electrical devices to prevent surge damage 
- Check your fire extinguisher, as electrical surges can sometimes cause fires 
- Get some spare cash  for food, gas and incidentials (ATMS could be out) 
- Top off your gas tank (if power goes out, no way to pump gas) 
-  Write down key phone numbers from your phone 
- Ensure your generator is ready, and you have fuel in the event of power grid issues 
- Plan to leave early for destinations as it can disrupt traffic patterns and communications 
- Exercise patience, be alert for sudden surge or electrical disruptions and be a good neighbor 
- Discuss your 303 plan with your family.  Where and when would you meet if you lost communications 



For Red Cross Tips on preparing for power outage see http://www.redcross.org/www-files/Documents/pdf/Preparedness/checklists/PowerOutage.pdf

"(Reuters) - Three large explosions from the Sun over the past few days have prompted U.S. government scientists to caution users of satellite, telecommunications and electric equipment to prepare for possible disruptions over the next few days.  "The magnetic storm that is soon to develop probably will be in the moderate to strong level," said Joseph Kunches, a space weather scientist at the Space Weather Prediction Center, a division of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)" http://in.reuters.com/article/2011/08/06/idINIndia-58646620110806

How do you measure a storm?  Here are the Scales http://www.swpc.noaa.gov/NOAAscales/
Who do you track or follow?  http://www.swpc.noaa.gov/
Whats a G1 and whats an R1?  http://www.swpc.noaa.gov/NOAAscales/



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 The Role of Colleges in Disaster 
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, July 31, 2011 
 Disaster Management Initiatives
Humanity Road is proud to be collaborating with students and professors at various colleges on their disaster management initiatives.  Some of the colleges we are working with include Southeast Arkansas College, San Diego State University, University of Colorado at Boulder, Arizona State University, and the National Defense University's STAR TIDE initiative.  Disasters around the world are challenging traditional response models and many colleges are stepping up to the plate to assist with solutions.  Here are just a few highlights of some colleges working to make a difference

Carnegie Mellon 
The students at Carnegie Mellon are working on the development of the Next generation Emergency Operation Center.   Using two 18 foot trailers provided by the NASA Ames Disaster Assistance and Rescue Team  (DART), they are prototyping a flexible environment for exploring a variety of Emergency Operation Center and Business Continuity system designs. “As these system decentralize and become virtual, they might be better called Continuity and Contingency Management (CCM) systems.”  The Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley Disaster Management Initiative (DMI) brings together private corporations, public organizations, non-profits and communities to develop better technical solutions for disaster management.  Our goal is to improve technology and approaches for better disaster management, humanitarian assistance and resiliency preparedness. Headed up by Director Martin Griss, and Associate Directors Jeannie Stamberger, Steve Ray, Steven Rosenberg The CNU-DMI is a center of excellence for disaster management research, development, evaluation, advocacy and dissemination of open and interoperable technologies, solutions and approaches.  They recently completed their 2011 California Mobile Command Center (MCC) Rally sponsored by the California Fire Chiefs Association (CFCA) and the California Emergency Management Agency (Cal EMA).  You can follow Carnegie Mellon on Twitter @cmusv_dmi and read more about them at http://bit.ly/quA4Ja.  


The University of Boulder Colorado
“Tweets that include tactical, actionable information contribute to situational awareness; such tweets include content that demonstrates an awareness of the scope of the crisis as well as specific details about the situation.”  Sudha Verma is one of many PhD students in Project Epic presented Extracting “Situational Awareness” Tweets During Mass Emergency at the International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM) in Barcelona on July 18.   Project EPIC, is a multi-disciplinary, multi-university, multi-lingual research effort to support the information needs by members of the public during times of mass emergency.  One of the utility programs that was created by a team at Boulder is Tweak the Tweet. You can read more about it at the Story Random Hacks of Kindness.  You can follow University of Boulder and Epic online and in twitter: @Kate30_CU @epiccolorado @sophiaBliu @cubouldernews @cuboulderevents @CUBoulderAlumni

Harvard Humanitarian Initiative (HHI)
The Harvard Humanitarian Initiative (HHI) is an interfaculty Harvard University initiative dedicated to advancing research, practice, and policy in the field of humanitarian assistance. HHI’s mission is “to relieve human suffering in war and disaster by advancing the science and practice of humanitarian response worldwide.”  Current initiatives include participation in STAR-TIDES, you can read more about STAR-TIDES under National Defense University below.   The Harvard Humanitarian Initiative maintains partnerships with major relief organizations and government agencies to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery worldwide. HHI serves as a source for technical, research, and training assistance to more than 40 humanitarian agencies [3] and international institutions, including: American Red Cross, AmeriCares, CARE, International Committee of the Red Cross(ICRC), International Rescue Committee(IRC), Médecins Sans Frontières, Oxfam America, Physicians for Human Rights(PHR), Save the Children USA, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), World Health Organization (WHO). 


San Diego State University  SDSU Viz Center, 
"How do we leverage the power of the web?"  This is a simple question and San Diego University is on the leading edge of exploring, analyzing and identifying ways to harness that power.  Dr. George Bressler speaks about X24 Europe, the social media disaster exercise hosted by San Diego Viz Center and EUCOM.  



During Europe X24 over 39,000 people from ninety four nations participated in the global exercise.  Funded by over $5,000,000 in grants per year, the Viz Lab provides practical assistance for natural disasters, pandemic response and analysis, humanitarian assistance, regional and global sustainability, global collaboration, domestic and international law enforcement, homeland and international security, global education, global business ventures, and product design and development.  You can follow San Diego Viz Center on Twitter @VizCenter @SDSU_NewsTeam @as_sdsu and read about them at http://vizcenter.net/vizcenter/about/. 

The Fletcher School, Tufts University
From the initial hours of Haiti to the initial hours of Japan student volunteers at the Fletcher School at Tufts University have been assisting mapping efforts at the onset of disaster with key translation and mapping of urgent needs. You can follow The Fletcher School or Tufts on Twitter @TuftsUniversity and @FletcherSchool @TuftsPR @TuftsGSAS and read more about them at http://fletcher.tufts.edu/ (Source) 

University of Colombia SIPA
A SIPA student group, the New Media Task Force, assisted relief workers meeting humanitarian needs in flood-affected areas of Pakistan by mapping the disaster online.  Through projects, panels, and events, we aim to create a community around new media for development and promote practical research and internship opportunities for SIPA students. Additionally, the New Media Task Force supports SIPA curriculum development around technology for development. Our students and alumni work globally with organizations such as The Earth Institute, UNICEF, OCHA, Ushahidi, and UNDP. One of our primary activities is Crisis Mapping, an international effort to respond to disasters around the globe, and our volunteers provide essential information within the first few essential days following a disaster.  You can follow University of Colombia on twitter @ColumbiaSIPA  
@NewMediaSIPA @SIPAUshahidi and online at http://sipa.columbia.edu/


National Defense University
Under a partnership between the National Defense University and the Naval Postgraduate School, the STAR-TIDES initiative hosts quarterly experiments at a remote field site in Paso Robles, CA (Camp Roberts). These experiments explore the edge of the possible within humanitarian operations, focusing on the creation of a common operating picture between all responding organizations–civilian and military, domestic and international.  STAR–TIDES (Sustainable Technologies, Accelerated Research–Transformative Innovation for Development and Emergency Support) is a networked effort that combines centralized and decentralized types of organizations. Its greatest strength is an extended network of interested individuals, businesses, government offices (civil and military), universities, and other entities.  The underlying model for STAR–TIDES and its whole-systems approach to infrastructure solutions is based on the Hexayurt Project’s "six ways people die" model.  These are too hot, too cold, thirst, hunger, illness, and injury. Shelters can help mitigate the first two risks, supply chains can address thirst and hunger, public health and medicine can mitigate many illnesses, and safety and security can reduce the likelihood of injury. These are too hot, too cold, thirst, hunger, illness, and injury. Shelters can help mitigate the first two risks, supply chains can address thirst and hunger, public health and medicine can mitigate many illnesses, and safety and security can reduce the likelihood of injury.  You can read more about National Defense University http://www.jfsc.ndu.edu/ (Source)

Arizona State University
DMML http://dmml.asu.edu/ School of Computing, Informatics, and Decision Systems Engineering.  The mission of DMML HA/DR group is to enhance communication and coordination between governmental and non governmental organizations during disasters.  "At DMML, we carry out research and build systems that use social media and crowd based sources to enable speedy response during disasters and events of crisis." The DMML research focuses on developing computational methods for data mining, machine learning, and social computing, and designing efficient algorithms to enable effective problem solving ranging from basic research, text/Web mining, bioinformatics, image mining, to real-world applications. The research includes (i) dealing with high dimensional data via feature selection and feature discretization; (ii) social computing, identifying the influentials in the blogosphere, group profiling and interaction; (iii) integrating multiple data sources to overcome ambiguity and uncertainty, (iv) employing domain knowledge for effective mining and information integration, and (v) assisting human experts by developing effective methods of ensemble learning, semi-supervised learning, and active learning with hierarchical classification, subspace clustering, and meta data. 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Disaster Pediatrics, Healing our Children 
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, July 24, 2011 
 According to the National Center for Disaster Medicine and Public Health, "Children represent 75,000,000 members, 30%, of our population.  It has been almost 10 years since 9/11 and in spite of the fact that there have been large amounts of funding for disaster preparedness, the majority of our health care clinicians are unprepared to provide the
necessary clinical support for children in the event of a disaster. "

According to the NCDMPH The suggested clinical health provider roles in the ED/Hospital setting who were identified as tier 1 responders and should pursue pediatric preparedness training are:
• Hospital Incident Command System leadership
• ED Physicians
• ED Mid-level Practitioners – PAs, NPs
• ED Nurses – RNs, LPNs
• EDs – communications staff
• Trauma surgeons
• General surgeons
• Surgical subspecialists
• Medical subspecialists (e.g. infectious disease)
• Hospitalist, Intensivist MD
• Non-ED Mid-level Practitioners – PA, NP
• ICU, Trauma Team, OR, RR – RN
• Med Surge Inpatient RN
• Psychological-Social
• Other Hospital based staff (e.g.respiratory care)

Helping children heal physically is critical but we cant stop there, we must also ensure they heal  emotionally from the impact of disaster.




The above video is from Unicef who explains that "the tragedies of war and natural disasters also leave children struggling to cope with deep psychological wounds. One of the ways that UNICEF and other organizations have helped to alleviate children's emotional scars is through dance and movement.  UNICEF Child Protection Specialist Amanda Melville views movement and dance as a way for children to reconnect to their normal lives after emergencies.  "It can be a way of getting people back in touch with what's happening in their bodies, but also a way of releasing some of that stress," she said. Dance and movement have been shown to alleviate symptoms of aggression, anxiety and depression."

To read the full story, visit: http://www.unicef.org/emerg/index_44821.html


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 People Like You 
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, July 17, 2011 
 TRIVIA QUESTION:  
In the USA who is the first responder responsible for rescue and emergency first aid during a catastrophic event?   

People Like YOU!    CERT Teams consist of everyday people like you.  Training now in light search and rescue and first aid can save your own life or that of your family.  There simply aren't enough to rescue everyone. It is imperative that citizen volunteers, people like you, have some training to bridge the gap until professional help arrives.

Before you read any further do this.  Search for your closest local CERT team.   If there isnt one close to you that should be even a larger clue how very much you are needed.  If there isnt one near you, START ONE.

Disaster preparedness is prudent, not paranoid! No matter where you live in America, road closures, power outages, flooding, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes or tornadoes are a fact of life. Less likely, but possible, is a pandemic or terrorist incident. Are you prepared to protect your loved ones and yourself? Your community?

The government and our first responders all warn us that in a major disaster help is not coming for hours, days, perhaps weeks. 

There simply aren't enough of them. It is imperative that citizen volunteers, people like you, have some training to bridge the gap until professional help arrives. Where can you get that training? All over the country, in neighborhoods like yours, classes and certifications are being given for CERT: Community Emergency Response Teams.

"People Like You" gives you the essential information from an actual CERT class given in California. Rich in imagery, fast paced and packed with vital strategies, this film covers Emergency Supplies, Utilities, Communications, Natural & Man-made Threats, Search & Rescue, Travel & Terrorism, Medical Triage, First Aid and Disaster Psychology in lively, easy-viewing chapters.

"People Like You" was produced with the certain knowledge that in any kind of a disaster, if you're not part of the solution, you'll be part of the problem. It's the goal of CERT training and this video, to help you become part of your community's solution.

Presented by Fire Captain Steve Lazenby, and sponsored by the Rotary Club of Ojai-West (CA).  




So what do you do next?  Call the number  of your closest local CERT team and find out when they hold training.  Plan to be a part of the solution


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 The Golden 24 Hours 
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, July 10, 2011 
 
TRIVIA QUESTION:  Surviving disaster may mean requiring assistance if you're trapped or pinned, what is your window of survival in this situation and how can you improve it? 

Time may be very limited for some victims.  The first 24 hours after a disaster has been called the "Golden Day" that period during which injured or trapped victims have an 80 percent chance of survival if rescued.[1]  

 The First 24 Hours Organization urges the public when disaster strikes to "use common sense”, work as a team and help the person next door.  Time is the critical parameter for the rescue of victims buried under collapsed buildings. 

There is a window In the first 24-hours when people who are injured and trapped can be saved, followed by a three-day period when trapped but uninjured victims are often successfully rescued.  You can learn more about the First 24 by visiting them and and enrolling for reminders in the 303plan.  Enroll today.  It's a simple plan that sends you a reminder every three months that when it is time to review and discuss your disaster plan with your family.  Also, get to know your neighbors.  Being connected and known to the local community can increase your chance.  You can't be rescued if they don't know you exist.     



After three days the chances of survival diminish rapidly unless the trapped person has access to drinking water. [2] .   Following a major disaster, first responders who provide fire and medical services may not be able to meet the demand for these services.   Emergency Services (911) is something many have come to expect at a moment's notice, however, the number of victims, communication failures, and road blockages may prevent or delay services.   People may have to rely on each other for help in order to meet their immediate life saving and life sustaining needs.  Developing and supporting a local Community Emergency Response team is one way to improve survival. [3]  

Communications can be out so having a plan of where to meet family or friends after disaster may help alert others that you have met with difficulty.  911 Services may be overwhelmed.  Also, when voice lines are down often text messaging  can go through.  However, most 911 call centers can not accept text message.  Develop a plan of who you can text if you are hurt, injured or trapped and need rescue.  Here are some valuable light search and rescue tips courtesy of the Newport Beach CERT Team. http://www.nbcert.org/lightsearchrescue.htm  and below are some top tips we've collected from various sources. 


Ten Tips on how to improve your chances of surviving disaster




Enhance Skills: Train with a CERT Team in rescue and life saving techniques to help your neighbors and family during disaster. You develop skills and network with the rescue team. 
Network:  Know your neighbors, your rescue services, your shelter options, your local police 
Practice your plan: Develop these simple steps now and practice it. 
Inform others: Spend 30 minutes every 3 months discussing your plan with your family 
Treat Wounds: Learn CPR and First Aid, know how to recognize and treat life threatening injuries 
Communicate: If 911 and voice lines are down, text message your location and your need for rescue to a friend or loved one. 
Stay Connected: Learn the settings on your phone, how the GPS works and how to extend the life of your cell phone until help arrives. 
Stay Calm:  A person can survive at least three days and sometimes more without water and three weeks with-out food 
Stay Hydrated: Water is critical to extending survival.  Keep a small bottle of water  in your desk, purse, car. 
Attitude:  Be decisive and don't give up. 





[1] http://www.nbcert.org/lightsearchrescue.htm 


[2] http://ec.europa.eu/research/fp7/pdf/19072010/sgl_for_usar_-_security.pdf 


[3] http://www.citizencorps.gov/cert/videos/CERTinAction/index.shtm 





Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Mosquitos and Dengue: Reducing your risk 
 Catherine Graham - Saturday, July 09, 2011 
 Summer season is not only a time for cookouts and swimming, but mosquitoes.  Mosquitoes spread various illnesses from Malaria to Dengue Fever.  Dengue Fever is caused by any one of four related viruses transmitted by mosquitoes. There are not yet any vaccines to prevent infection with dengue virus (DENV).  The most effective protective measures are those that avoid mosquito bites.   (source)


 Reducing your risk 
In an article to Oahu on a recent outbreak the CDC stated “We need the public’s help to clean up mosquito breeding areas by emptying all standing water, and checking gutters and other areas that collect water.” Is your home mosquito resistant?  Take a tour and check for the following

Top 10 Mosquito Love nests (Courtesy Ontario Ministry of Health) :
                -Bird Baths 
                -Old Tires 
                -Unused Containers such as barrels 
                -Flower pot saucers 
                -Swimming pool covers 
                -Wading Pools 
                -Clogged gutters/eavestroughs 
                -Clogged drainage ditches
                 -Small containers such as cans or bottle tops 
                -Unused Childrens Toys  or vehicles


 

Protect against mosquito bites by applying repellant containing DEET (20-30%) or picaridin to skin and clothing; 
Repairing window and door screens to keep mosquitoes from entering indoors; and 
Wear lighter-colored clothing that covers and protects skin from biting mosquitoes. 
Bed Nets: When accommodations are not adequately screened or air conditioned, bed nets are essential to provide protection and to reduce discomfort caused by biting insects. 

Know where the risk exists:   Whether you are travelling abroad or staying home, be aware of where disease outbreaks may be prevalent, check HealthMap.  With HealthMap's Outbreaks Near Me application, you have all of HealthMap's latest real-time disease outbreak information at your fingertips.




 
 
 
Treating Dengue Fever
Not one case of dengue fever was reported in the U.S. from 1946 to 1980, and since then, the only reported cases have been tied to outbreaks in towns across, but near, the U.S. border.  Dengue fever is common on most other continents. In fact, at least 50 million people come down with the illness every year in South and Central America, Southeast Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, Northeastern Australia and other locations.  There is no medicine or vaccine to treat dengue fever. The only treatment is acetaminophen (Tylenol). Aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen should be avoided. Those who contract dengue fever should rest and drink plenty of fluids. They should also cover themselves to prevent further mosquito bites (Source)

Recent cases reported in the USA.
Not one case of dengue fever was reported in the U.S. from 1946 to 1980, and since then, the only reported cases have been tied to outbreaks in towns across, but near, the U.S. border.  Dengue fever is common on most other continents. In fact, at least 50 million people come down with the illness every year in South and Central America, Southeast Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, Northeastern Australia and other locations.  There is no medicine or vaccine to treat dengue fever. The only treatment is acetaminophen (Tylenol). Aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen should be avoided. Those who contract dengue fever should rest and drink plenty of fluids. They should also cover themselves to prevent further mosquito bites ().
 
 

 4 Cases in Pearl City, Oahu, HI - March 2011 
http://tinyurl.com/3ss3cjk  CDC News Release re Above Cases  http://tinyurl.com/3nnllnv

 

 
 
1 Case in Miami-Dade County, Florida - January 2011 
http://tinyurl.com/43rdy7q 


Since 2009, 93 Cases in Key West, Florida - May 17, 2011 
http://tinyurl.com/3h5keg6 


17 Cases reported in Texas in 2011; all imported, not an outbreak - Dec 14, 2010
7 outbreaks since 1980. 

 
 
 
http://tinyurl.com/3jh7o92 



One of the best posters we’ve seen is from Karachi:

 
 
 
 http://woodshedenvironment.wordpress.com/2008/08/12/pakistan-dengue-poster/
 
 
 

 
 
 

 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 The Cost of Solar Storms - Part 1 
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, July 03, 2011 
 TRIVIA QUESTION:   Solar flares and geomagnetic storms can interfere with communications and cause amazing aurora displays.  What is the costliest geomagnetic storm in history?  Part 1 covers class of storms and noteable storms in the past.  Part 2 will cover what actions are being taken and what to do before, during and after a solar storm.

Researchers rank solar flares according to their x-ray power output. C-flares are the weakest. M-flares are middling-strong. X-flares are the most powerful. Each category has subdivisions: e.g., X1, X2, X3 and so on. A typical X-flare registers X1 or X2.  So you can understand how an X Class Flare can turn heads.









 November 4th 2003 part of the "Halloween Solar Flare" (See below)  saw the most powerful Solar flare eruption (see animation above) on record. This measured a colossal X 28 on the Solar Richter scale. For those unaquainted with the magnitude of Solar Flares it may be difficult to comprehend the extreme force of such an explosion which is the largest ever recorded in the Solar System.   Its like having an earthquake of 25 on the Richter scale.  We've been recording solar events with the twin SOHO satellites since 2006.  The following video explains solar flares, solar winds




Prior to January of 2011 We had no X Class Flares for four years.  Then on February 14 a solar storm  heavily disrupted telecommunications in China and on March 9 an X1.5 Flare erupted directed at earth.  The next video may surprise you. 




NOTEABLE SOLAR STORM EVENTS
 The Superstorm (August 28, 1859) This storm was observed world-wide and is, historically, one of the greatest events recorded in the last 150 years. Extensive eyewitness accounts and scientific studies, telegraph disturbances and the unique sighting of a spectacular solar flare make this event one of the most interesting solar storms to read about.

The Civil War Aurora (December 14, 1862) This aurora was seen by Civil War soldiers in Fredericksberg Virginia. According to a letter by Milo Grow "There was a brilliant exhibition of Aurora Borealis soon after dark last night. For half an hour it shows very brilliantly reaching to the mid heavens in colors of yellow and red. " And in the David Ballenger letters "On the night of the second day of the battle there was a singular appearance in the elements, the most singular that I ever saw in my life. Some said it was an Aurora Borealis, or Northern Light, but if it was it was a little different from any I ever saw before. It rose on the side of the enemy and came up very near parallel with our line of battle, and right over us. It turned as red as blood, but when it commenced rising it looked more like the appearance of the moon rising than anything else I know to compare it to" (1862 December 23). " And by John W. Thompson, Jr. "Louisiana sent those famous cosmopolitan Zouaves called the Louisiana Tigers, and there were Florida troops who, undismayed in fire, stampeded the night after Fredericksburg, when the Aurora Borealis snapped and crackled over that field of the frozen dead hard by the Rappahannock ..." And also in 1905 by Elizabeth Lyle Saxon in A Southern Woman's War Time Reminiscenses " It was near this time that the wonderful spectacle of the Aurora Borealis was seen in the Gulf States. The whole sky was a ruddy glow as if from an enormous conflagration, but marked by the darting rays peculiar to the Northern light. It caused much surprise, and aroused the fears even of those far from superstitious. I remember an intelligent old Scotch lady said to me, "Oh, child, it is a terrible omen; such lights never burn, save for kings' and heroes' deaths."

The Transit of Venus Storm (November 18, 1882) It produced a compass bearing deflection of nearly 2 degrees, All telegraphic transactions east of the Mississippi River and north of Washington D.C came to a halt. The Chicago stock market was severely affected all day. A large sunspot was then seen covering an area of more than three thousand millions of square miles. Simultaneously with the appearance of the spot, magnetic disturbances at the observatory in Greenwich increased in frequency and violence, other symptoms were noticed throughout the length of the British Isles. Telegraphic communication was greatly interfered with. The signal bells on many of the railway lines were rung, and some of the operators received shocks from their instruments. Lastly, on November 17, a superb aurora was witnessed, the culminating feature of which was the appearance, at about six o'clock in the evening, of a mysterious beam of greenish light, in shape something like a cigar, and many degrees in length, which rose in the east and crossed the sky at a pace much quicker than but nearly as even as that of sun, moon, or stars, till it set in the west two minutes after its rising. The daily press was burdened with accounts of widespread magnetic disturbance, in some places telegraphic communication was suspended. In Milwaukee the carbons in the electric lamps were lighted, rendered incandescent by currents of electricity flowing on the wires. At other locations, switchboards in telegraph offices were set on fire and sending keys were melted, while electric balls were seen hovering on the telegraph in Nebraska.

The Easter Sunday Storm (March 25, 1940)  On Easter Sunday calls to grandma by millions of people were halted between 10:00 AM and 4:00 PM creating pandemonium at nearly all Western Union offices. [New York Times, March 25, 1940, p. 1]. A telephone cable between Fargo North Dakota and Winnipeg was found with its wires fused together, presumably from the voltage surges. Consolidated Edison of New York also reported 1,500 volt dips in three electrical generators in New York City located in Brooklyn and the Bronx. In Bangor Maine, lightning arresters were burned out as well. The New York Times noted that United Press reported earth currents at 400 Volts in Boston, 450 in Milwaukee, and more than 750 Volts near St. Louis. All tolled, the Associated Press's entire investment of 185,000 miles of leased wires were put out of service. Practically every long-distance telegraph or telephone office in the country was doing repair work in what was considered one of the worst such events in history. AT&T land lines had been badly disrupted by 600 volt surges on wires designed for 48 volts. In the Atlantic Cable between Scotland and Newfoundland, voltages up to 2,600 volts were recorded during the storm. Coast Guard radio stations were blocked, although compasses were not affected. Excessive voltage in the Boston and Kene telegraph lines 'blew fuses'. In several instances fuses were 'blown' and vacuum tubes ran the risk of damage due to these influences.
The Acheron Submarine Storm (February 24, 1956) The February 24, 1956 storm produced the most intense cosmic ray blast ever recorded, but was a nonevent so far as any apparent worldwide disruptions were concerned. The New York Times ran a very short 100-word article on a 'rare aurora' seen in Fairbanks Alaska in the shape of a pure red arc. Later, they announced that 'Suns raging storms photographed in a lengthier article. The aurora was held responsible for the cause of a full-scale Naval alarm for a British submarine which was thought to have disappeared. The Acheron had been expected to report her position at 5:05 EST while on Arctic patrol. When it failed to do so, emergency rescue preparations were begun and both ships and rescue planes began searching the waters between Iceland and Greenland. The 'missing' submarine turned up four hours later when its transmissions were again picked up. In Boston, Channel 7 TV viewers were treated to broadcasts from Channel 7 in Manchester Vermont while Channel 4 viewers watched a program on the same channel televised from Providence Rhode Island. A bizarre voice over to a love scene being played out on a local TV channel produced the dialog' Smith gave him a left to the jaw and a short right to the stomach....But darling, we love each other so very much...a left hook to the jaw flattened Smith...Kiss me again my sweet" Amazingly a local weatherman was quoted as saying that aurora were caused by sunlight reflecting off of ice crystals high up in the atmosphere, not realizing that he was resurrecting Captain John Rosse's discredited idea now dead for some 120 years. 

The Quebec Blackout Storm (March 13, 1989) Astronomers were busily tracking "Active Region 5395" on the Sun when suddenly it disgorged a massive cloud of superheated gas on March 10, 1989. Three days later, and seemingly unrelated to the solar paroxicism, people around the world saw a spectacular Northern Lights display. Most newspapers that reported this event considered the spectacular aurora to be the most newsworthy aspect of the storm. Seen as far south as Florida and Cuba, the vast majority of people in the Northern Hemisphere had never seen such a spectacle in recent memory. At 2:45 AM on March 13, electrical ground currents created by the magnetic storm found their way into the power grid of the Hydro-Quebec Power Authority. Giant capacitors tried to regulate these currents but failed within a few seconds as automatic protective systems took them off-line one by one. Suddenly, the entire 9,500 megawatt output from Hydro-Quebec's La Grande Hydroelectric Complex found itself without proper regulation. Power swings tripped the supply lines from the 2000 megawatt Churchill Falls generation complex, and 18 seconds later, the entire Quebec power grid collapsed. Six million people were affected as they woke to find no electricity to see them through a cold Quebec wintry night. People were trapped in darkened office buildings and elevators, stumbling around to find their way out. Traffic lights stopped working, Engineers from the major North American power companies were worried too. Some would later conclude that this could easily have been a $6 billion catastrophe affecting most US East Coast cities. All that prevented the cascade from affecting the United States were a few dozen capacitors on the Allegheny Network

The Halloween Storm (October)  29, 2003 This Halloween Storm spawned auroras that were seen over most of North America. Extensive satellite problems were reported, including the loss of the $450 million Midori-2 research satellite. Highly publicized in the news media. A huge solar storm has impacted the Earth, just over 19 hours after leaving the sun. This is one of the fastest solar storm in historic times, only beaten by the perfect solar storm in 1859 which spent an estimated 17 hours in transit. A few days later on November 4, 2003 one of the most powerful x-ray flares ever detected, swamped the sensors of dozens of satellites, causing satellite operations anomalies….but no aurora. Originally classified as an X28 flare, it was upgrade to X34 a month later. In all of its fury, it never became a white light flare such as the one observed by Carrington in 1859. Astronauts hid deep within the body of the International Space Station, but still reported radiation effects and ocular 'shooting stars'.
Source: http://newyork.ibtimes.com/articles/159444/20110608/top-solar-flare-storm-history-effect-on-earth.htm

The cosliest?  The halloween storm of 2003, unless, experts determine the X Class flare of March 9, to be a contributing factor to the 9.0 Japan earthquake  March 11, 2011.


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink



 
Previous  1  2 3 4 Next 


Recent Posts
 After the Storm - Now what? 10 TipsSalute to World Humanitarian DayA Local Perspective - Being Prepared in HawaiiProtecting From Solar Storms The Role of Colleges in DisasterDisaster Pediatrics, Healing our ChildrenPeople Like YouThe Golden 24 HoursMosquitos and Dengue: Reducing your riskThe Cost of Solar Storms - Part 1 
Tags
  Japan Flooding Virginia Red Cross Tornado California Volunteer Disease FEMA Hurricane Irene Disaster Relief Social Media Gulf Coast Standby Task Force, Libya USA Lessons Learned Hurricane TtT Mississippi Drill solar Disaster Preparedness Hawaii tsunami Earthquake Germany Public Information Be Prepared, Are you ready, Education emotional, psychological Tweet   Be Prepared, Are you ready, (3) California (1) Disaster Preparedness (13) Disaster Relief (4) Disease (1) Drill (1) Earthquake (3) Education (11) emotional, psychological (1) FEMA (1) Flooding (1) Germany (1) Gulf Coast (1) Hawaii (1) Hurricane (1) Hurricane Irene (1) Japan (1) Lessons Learned (1) Mississippi (1) Public Information (8) Red Cross (1) Social Media (1) solar (1) Standby Task Force, Libya (2) Tornado (1) tsunami (1) TtT (2) Tweet (3) USA (2) Virginia (2) Volunteer (8) 
Archive
 August 2011 (4)July 2011 (6)June 2011 (3)May 2011 (2)April 2011 (4)March 2011 (2)February 2011 (2)January 2011 (1)October 2010 (1) 

 

Go Back

Humanity Road, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to educating the public with critical recovery information before, during and after a catastrophic disaster. Humanity Road, Inc. and its global volunteers endeavor to provide information that is useful, timely and as accurate as possible, however, they should not be viewed as an authoritative source. Please do not rely solely on the content of this web site for emergency response decision making without verification through alternate sources.

       
                                  


            
                   

                      
 
        Copyright © Humanity Road, Inc. 2011. All Rights Reserved.
        Design meets function at Kerkian Consulting, LLC.

















