
	Texas Forest Service











RE-ENTRY PLAN ESTABLISHED FOR BASTROP COUNTY RESIDENTS AFFECTED BY WILDFIRE









[ Print | 

 ]



Sunday, September 11, 2011, 3:30 PM - Bastrop County Sheriff Pickering announced at a press conference Sunday at the Bastrop Convention Center that a re-entry plan has been established that will allow only registered residents with placards re-entry to the following subdivisions on the following dates: § Monday, September 12 - Circle D, Pine Valley, KC Estates, and Pine Hill Estates § Tuesday, September 13 - ColoVista-Southern Portion, Wilderness Ridge, Harmon Road, Cottletown Road, Bastrop State Park, Beuscher State Park, Park Road 1C South.§ Thursday, September 15 - Pine Forest, Tahitian Village East, ColoVista North, Mcallister.A color coded map of these subdivisions is posted at the front entrance of the Bastrop Convention Center. The goal is that all areas will be opened only to registered residents with placards by Thursday, September 15. Firefighters and utility crews are working as quickly and as safely as possible to secure the area so residents can safely return to their property. Hot spots and other hazards still exist within the perimeter. Firefighters are working day and night shifts extinguishing hot spots and patrolling the area to ensure fire does not flare up. Utility crews continue to re-construct damaged lines and re-charge electrical power lines. Water lines have also been established in 70 percent of the area affected by the fire.The Bastrop Fire is 50 percent contained and the Union Chapel Fire is 90 percent contained. Re-entry for residents to this area occurred at 10 a.m. yesterday. State Highway 71 was also re-opened Saturday. NOTICE: Victims of the Bastrop County Complex Fire may pick up donations after registering at evacuation shelters or the Bastrop County Convention Center. A press conference is scheduled again tomorrow at the Bastrop Convention Center at 10:30 a.m. Monday.  For more information call 2-1-1 or 1-512-332-8814 or 8856. (Media only 1-512-308-9724.) Or visit: www.co.bastrop.tx.us or http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu or http://www.inciweb.org/incident/2589/.  








