Dodd-Frank Law in Texas | Owner Financed Homes Austin TX - Austin Owner Finance Experts





HomeTestimonials
Search Listings

Advanced Search
Google Map Search
MLS # Search
Address Search
Homes For Lease


Owner Financed Homes
Owner Finance 101

Dodd-Frank Law in Texas
Owner Financing: What is it?
Owner Finance Qualifications
Mortgage Assignments
Benefits of Owner Financing
Wrap-Around Mortgage
Due on Sale Clause
Texas SAFE Act
Plan to Refinance
Lease Options and Rent to Own


Buyer & Seller Articles
Contact
 
Dodd-Frank Law in TexasThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was passed by Congress in 2010 as part of comprehensive reform of financial regulation.


Home » Owner Finance 101 » Dodd-Frank Law in Texas 
It should be noted that Dodd Frank overlaps the federal S.A.F.E. Act (implemented in Texas in 2009). The intent of the S.A.F.E. Act is to achieve better consumer protection by regulating certain lending practices that were significantly abused in the past. In particular, the Act places a licensing requirement (RMLO) on certain types of owner financing provided by professional investors. Excluded from the licensing requirement are sales of the seller’s homestead and sales to immediate family members.
Dodd-Frank and the S.A.F.E. Act should be considered alongside the 2005 amendments to Chapter 5 of the Texas Property Code. These amendments include extensive regulations upon all forms of “executory contracts,” including contracts for deed and lease-options. Penalties for violations are severe.
These federal and state laws combined have forever altered the status of Texas as a haven for owner financed transactions.
Summary of Dodd-Frank
Dodd Frank requires that a seller/lender in an owner financed transaction involving a residence to determine at the time credit is extended that the buyer/borrower has the ability to repay the loan. Seller is obligated to investigate Buyer’s credit history, current and expected income, current obligations, debt-to-income ratio, employment status, and the like in order to make this determination. This law provides for a de minimus exception for persons doing not more than three owner financed transactions per year (so long as the seller/lender is not in the building business).
Loans must be fully amortizing (i.e., balloons are not permitted); prepayment penalties are banned; and an owner financed note must have a fixed rate or, if adjustable, must adjust only after five or more years and be subject to reasonable annual and lifetime limitations on interest rate increases.
Additionally, the practice by some refinance lenders of encouraging default on an existing loan before extending a new loan is banned.
Conclusion
Owner finance, more limited and regulated than ever before, is now a precarious venture in Texas. Consult Forte Properties BEFORE entering into a sales contract calling for owner finance and NEVER use forms off the internet to set up such a transaction. Liability under the new federal and state statutes is just too great to take the risk.
Questions? Give Forte Properties a call or send us an email today: (512)981-6865 Contact Us





NavigationTEXAS WILDFIRE RELIEF
Austin Real Estate Search
Owner Financed Homes
Luxury Homes
Downtown Austin Condos
Selling Your Home?
Stop Foreclosure
Austin Real Estate Articles
Austin Area School Info
Relocating to Austin?
Prequalify For a Mortgage Loan
Contact Forte Properties
Owner Financed Homes 



Luxury Homes
Austin
Round Rock
Pflugerville
Cedar Park
Leander
Georgetown


Hutto
Manor
Lakeway
Lago Vista
Spicewood
Buda
Kyle





Don’t see the area you are looking for above? Our ADVANCED Owner Financed home search solution allows you to search through all Owner Financed homes in Austin and surrounding areas the way you want to search: by City, Neighborhood, Zip Code, School District and much more!
Client Login 

Email:



Password:




Forgot your Password?





Don't have an account? Sign up for FREE to receive new property listings sent straight to your Inbox as soon as they hit the market!


 






Surrounding Areas 



Austin
North Austin
South Austin
West Austin
Georgetown
Round Rock
Pflugerville


Cedar Park
 Leander
Lago Vista
Lakeway
West Lake Hills
Bee Cave
Dripping Springs




 Austin Real Estate BlogAustin / Bastrop Wildfire Relief InformationDodd-Frank, SAFE ACT, Owner Financing and YOU!City Vision for Downtown Austin TexasHow will the S&P Downgrade Affect Austin Real Estate?Negotiating Real Estate to “YES!”
Browse Communities 



Steiner Ranch
Sun City
Circle C
Avery Ranch
Brushy Creek
Lakeway
Highland Park


Teravista
Blockhouse Creek
Forest Oaks
Buttercup Creek
Barton Creek
Anderson Mill
Onion Creek




Follow Us On Twitter




Quick Home Search 
Contact 
(512)981-6865 Office*GreatHomesTexas.com http://www.GreatHomesTexas.com 7800 Shoal Creek Blvd Ste 100N 
Austin, Texas 78757  Forte Properties 





Copyright © 2011 Forte Properties. All Rights Reserved. Chris Casperson, Licensed Texas REALTOR® - AMG Austin Group, LLC
Austin TX Homes For Sale | Owner Financed Homes Austin | Sell Your Austin Property | Contact | Sitemap | IDX Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Resources










