lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » September






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Thursday, September 30, 2010
The Legend of Steel Bashaw, Petar Meseldžija

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:36 pm 
 


Serbian artist Petar Meseldžija, who I wrote about in 2008, has a career that has included outstanding work in comics, illustration, posters and gallery art. 
He has taken elements from all aspects of his skill range and applied them to the classic form of the illustrated storybook in The Legend of Steel Bashaw, an adaptation of a Serbian folktale known as Baš Čelik. 
To bring the book to U.S. readers, Meseldžija worked with Flesk Publications, whose consistent high standards in reproduction and printing for art books make them an ideal choice to bring Meseldžija  to the attention of a wider audience. 
Flesk sent me a review copy and they’ve hit it out of the park again. 
Meseldžija brings his rich, painterly style to classic fantasy settings, quite cottages on sunny hillsides, paths through darkened green woods, mountain streams and ancient castles; and in particular, gnarled trees, wet with moss and tinged with fall colors, that are like characters themselves. 
Into these settings he brings grotesque giants, fearsome demons and cunning dragons, along with our hero and heroine, who play out a story cast in the mold of great man vs. monster legends like Beowulf and Homer’s Odyssey.
With an eye for subtle color contrasts and vibrant textures, Meseldžija brings the story to life in the first two thirds of the book. In the latter third, Flesk has worked with Meseldžija to bring the making of the story and its images to light, with initial sketches, concept drawings, and highly refined preliminary tone drawings, as well as color sketches and some of the artist’s relevant landscape paintings.
The result is two books in one, the illustrated story and the “making of” chapter that reveals Meseldžija’s working methods.
You can see some images from the book on the Flesk Publications site, as well as in the Illustration section of Meseldžija’s site.
The book can be ordered through Flesk’s new online store, or via snail mail.
Petar Meseldžija’s website has been revised and expanded since I last wrote about him, and includes examples of his work in multiple areas.
[Update 11/23/10: Petar Meseldžija now has a blog at http://petarmeseldzija.blogspot.com/. Though it was only recently started, he has already added fascinating information about his working methods.]


Link: The Legend of Steel Bashaw, Flesk Publications
Petar Meseldžija's website
http://petarmeseldzija.blogspot.com/ (blog)
My previous post on Petar Meseldžija

Posted in:  Book Reviews,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, September 29, 2010
Edgar Degas

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:57 am 
 


Though considered a member of the original core group of French Impressionists, Edgar Degas (Hilaire Germain Edgar Degas), always stood apart, both in his approach to painting, in which he considered himself a realist rather than an Impressionist, and in his emphasis on drawing.
Amid a group that downplayed the role of drawing in art in deference to the immediacy of painting the fleeting effects of light (Monet went so far as to hide the role drawing played in his art), Degas was arguably one of the finest draftsmen of the 19th Century.
Degas was part of the Impressionist group socially, and hung out at the Café Guerbois with artists in and around their circle, including Manet, Cézanne, Renoir, Monet, Sisley, Bazille and Pissarro, though he often argued with them. 
He helped organize the Impressionists’ out-of-the-mainstream independent exhibits, and exhibited in all but one of them. More financially stable then the others, he also collected works by painters in and around their circle, like Pissarro, Gauguin, Cézanne and Manet.     
In his painting style, however, he never adopted the broken dots of color, painting of light effects or     fondness for landscape championed by Monet and the other Impressionists, and was derisive of their practice of plein air painting. 
He instead continued in the vein of the realists like Courbet and Corot (who, we forget today, were radical in their own time). Degas, too was radical in his own way, particularly in his dramatic compositions, which broke the laws of academic painting as surely as his contemporaries did with their deliberate rejection of academic traditions.
Like the Impressionists, Degas was very influenced by the work of Édouard Manet, who he met while both were copying the same painting in the Louvre (a practice common to serious art students at the time), but Degas also carried with him his admiration for artists like Ingres and Delacroix.
Degas, particularly in his later work,  did share with the Impressionists the use of bold, painterly brushwork and vivid colors; and this, as well as his compositional innovations, carried over into his intensely expressive pastel drawings, which may be the most recognizable of his works today.
With their familiar subjects of ballet rehearsals, horse racing and women at the bath, Degas’ pastels are beautifully drawn, innovatively realized and striking in their graphic power. 
Degas also drew beautifully in other media, and was accomplished at etching, lithography and sculpture.
There is currently an exhibition at the Morgan Library and Museum in New York of Degas Drawings and Sketchbooks that is on display until January 23, 2011. The Online Exhibition on the website lets you flip through a selection of drawings and a sketchbook from the exhibit. Use the “See thumbnails” choice at left and when using the Zoomable views, be sure to choose the “Full Screen” option below the image to the right of the zooming controls.
Degas has become one of the most popular and revered artists in the world, and there are more resources in print and on the web than I can begin to list here; so I will instead point you to a general search on Amazon for Degas, and the extensive lists of web resources for Degas on ArtCyclopedia, including museum listings and image archives (see the tabs at the top of the list for other categories).


Link: Degas Drawings and Sketchbooks, Morgan Library to 1/23/11
Edgar Degas on ArtCyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   9 Comments »


Monday, September 27, 2010
Arcimboldo, 1526-1593: Nature and Fantasy

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:48 pm 
 


Giuseppe Arcimboldo’s wonderfully bizarre blendings of nature and humankind, incorporating natural forms like vegetables, twigs and leaves as well as fish and other small animals in the representation of human faces, can still “turn heads” today, as they must have in the 16th Century.
Largely forgotten shortly after his death and re-discovered in the 20th Century, Arcimboldo is the subject of a new exhibition at the National Gallery in Washington, D.C.
Arcimboldo, 1526-1593: Nature and Fantasy includes sixteen examples of his work, seen here in the U.S. for the first time. The exhibition also includes drawings by Da Vinci and Durer, along with other works intended to provide context for the paintings.
His hallucinatory arrangements of images within a larger image delighted the Surrealists, who saw in him a precursor to their dream inspired visions. His “still life” paintings (done at a time when still life was not an accepted genre) that only revealed their human face when inverted, have entered pop culture in the form of countless “optical illusion” variations on the theme.
The National Gallery has provided a very nice PDF Exhibition Brochure, that can be downloaded from the right hand column of the exhibition page, as well as a short video.
Arcimboldo, 1526-1593: Nature and Fantasy will be on view until January 9, 2011.
For more, see my previous post on Giuseppe Arcimboldo.
[Via Art Daily]


Link: Arcimboldo, 1526-1593: Nature and Fantasy, NGA to 1/9/11
My previous post on Giuseppe Arcimboldo

Posted in:  Amusements,Gallery and Museum Art   |   7 Comments »



OP-ED at 40: Four Decades of Illustration

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:00 pm 
 


40 years ago, the New York Times debuted a new page, the OP-ED or Opposite Editorial page, meant to be both physically and philosophically opposite the editorial page. 
In choosing the art for this page, the editors wanted to step outside the customary range of editorial cartoons and find an opposing style there as well.
The result have been 40 years of striking, hard-hitting, though provoking and outside-the-box illustration. 
There is a short (10 minute) video on the New York Times site, OP-ED at 40: Four Decades of Illustration, that explores the history of the illustration for the page, featuring multiple examples along with comments from both editors and artists.
There is a list on the page, below the video, of the artists whose work is featured, in the order of appearance.
The feature includes several artists I’ve written about here on Lines and Colors, including Brad Holland, Sam Weber, Al Hirschfeld, Ronald Searle and Maria Kalman.


Link: OP-ED at 40: Four Decades of Illustration, on New York Times

Posted in:  Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Saturday, September 25, 2010
Art of the American Soldier

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:13 pm 
 


I’ve written before about combat artists, soldiers called on (or inspired to) record their experiences in combat and in other aspects of a soldier’s life. 
Starting in World War I, the U.S. Army had a program of officially designated combat artists. Remarkably, they were told to record their experiences directly as they saw them, and not reserved or slanted as nationalistic propaganda. 
That principle seems to have been adhered to over the years, so we get to see soldiers’ lives through their own eyes, largely unaltered by the otherwise expected filters of military bureaucracy and politicians.
The Army has a collection of hundreds of works, spanning generations of artists, that its curator calls “the most famous collection no one’s ever heard of”. 
Selections have been drawn from that collection as part of a new exhibition titled Art of the American Soldier that opened yesterday at the National Constitution Center here in Philadelphia.
The online preview is arranged along a horizontally scrolling 100 year timeline, from WWI to the present day. You can hover your mouse over individual images for brief credits, and click for more detailed information and larger view, that can in turn be clicked on for a larger image.
Art of the American Soldier is on view until January 10, 2011.
(Images above: George Harding, Lester G. Hornby, Franklin Boggs, Howard Brodie, Paul MacWilliams, Frank M. Thomas, Sieger Hartgers, Peter G. Varisano, Elzie Golden)


Link: Art of the American Soldier  (with video intro)
Art of the American Soldier  (without video intro)
My related posts:
They Drew Fire: Combat Artists of World War II
Art of War: Eyewitness U.S. Combat Art From the Revolution through the Twentieth Century
Kerr Eby
CRW Nevinson
Bill Mauldin

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Friday, September 24, 2010
Divergent: The Art of Sterling Hundley

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:01 pm 
 


Sterling Hundley, who I’ve written about previously here and here, is the subject of a one man show at the University of the Arts here in Philadelphia.
Divergent: The Art of Sterling Hundley opens today, September 24th, 2010, at the Richard C. von Hess Illustration Gallery, 333 South Broad St, Philadelphia, and runs until November 22nd.
Hundley will be giving an artist’s talk on October 14th from 1:30 to 3pm in the CBS Auditorium, followed by a reception in the Von Hess Illustration Gallery.
The show features over 30 works from Hundley’s career and demonstrates a diverse range of illustration styles (presumably the origin of the exhibition’s name). In them he shows some common threads of fascination with texture, patterns, and subdued color palettes.
You can see a preview of works from the show on Hundley’s page on Behance Network.


Link: Divergent: The Art of Sterling Hundley, Behance Network
Exhibition at Richard C. von Hess Illustration Gallery, to 11/22/10
www.sterlinghundley.com, (website)
http://descriptions.sterlinghundley.com, (blog)
My previous posts: 
Sterling Hundley
Sterling Clinton Hundley: emergent

Posted in:  Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, September 23, 2010
Tilt-Shift Van Gogh

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:55 pm 
 


Actually, pseudo tilt-shift Van Gogh, but that’s a small quibble.
Tilt-shift photography is a process in which depth of field and lens angle are manipulated to make a real scene look like a miniature. 
The effect can be simulated in Photoshop with judicious selections and applications of blur filters. 
The folks over at ArtCyclopedia, one of my favorite online art resources, decided to apply the Photoshop version to some paintings, just to see what would happen. 
The chose some of Van Gogh’s paintings as their subjects. The results are uneven, but where the effect works, it works quite well, and produces amusing and enlightening versions of familiar paintings that have the charm of children’s pop-up books or dioramas. 
At best, they let us look at these paintings with fresh eyes, always a delight.
[Via Gizmodo]


Link: www.artcyclopedia.com/hot/tilt-shift-van-gogh.htm
My related posts:
Tilt-shift photography
Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night
Vincent van Gogh Gallery

Posted in:  Amusements,Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »



Dictaphone Parcel (Lauri Warsta)

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:46 pm 
 


Artist Lauri Warsta put a dictaphone (reel to reel audio recorder, anybody remember those?) in a parcel, turned it on and shipped it from London to Helsinki.
He took the resultant recording of truck, warehouse and plane sounds, along with snippets of surreptitiously collected worker conversation, edited it down, and then animated his impressions of the journey to create a sort of pseudo documentary of the box’s travels called Dictaphone Parcel.
The animation has the look of being drawn on a chalkboard.
[Via MetaFilter]


Link: Dictaphone Parcel on Vimeo
Lauri Wasrta on Cargo Collective

Posted in:  Animation   |   2 Comments »


Wednesday, September 22, 2010
Carlo Russo

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:20 pm 
 


Philadelphia artist Carlo Russo paints landscapes and figurative work, but his emphasis is on still life. 
Russo is one of those still life painters who manages to convey a feeling of stopped time in his paintings, a sensation of quiet focus and contemplative stillness. His portrayals of rough textured crockery, weathered wood, and tarnished copper pots bring to mind the textural marvels of Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin. 
Though his still life subjects also include such staples as fruit and flowers, Russo is more likely to choose  pumpkins or gourds, objects that are rich with texture. In his recent work, he is also experimenting with other textural challenges, painting difficult objects like feather dusters and sheepskin.
Russo studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. He teaches classes at the Woodmere Art Museum and occasionally takes on students in his studio. His South Philadelphia studio will be on the Philadelphia Open Studio Tours event on October 2-3 of this year.
Russo currently the subject of a one man show at the F.A.N. Gallery here in Philadelphia, that ends this Saturday on September 25th, 2010.


Link: www.carlorussoart.com
F.A.N. Gallery
Philadelphia Open Studio Tours, 10/2-10/3, 2010
Anderson Fine Art

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »


Tuesday, September 21, 2010
Line by Line, James McMullan

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:20 am 
 

I have long been a proponent of the idea that drawing is as much of a natural potential ability for human beings as writing. 
I’ve often wondered about that odd demarcation somewhere around puberty where an unspoken law seems to take effect and “all children draw” becomes “only some teenagers and adults draw because they’re artists”.
Somehow, drawing has acquired the cachet of a magical gift, “talent”, with which one is endowed or not. While this can be fun and advantageous for those of us who are on that side of the divide, it’s basically nonsensical. 
Drawing is a skill, a skill that can be taught (or at least learned), like playing a musical instrument. 
The most popular example of this is the tremendous success of the techniques championed by Betty Edwards in her book, Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain. See the examples on her site for the leap adults make from “childlike drawing” to “realistic drawing” with about 40 hours of training. See my post on Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain for more on the subject of drawing as a teachable skill.
I was delighted, then, to see illustrator and poster artist James McMullan begin a series last week in the New York Times called Line by Line, in which he encourages anyone interested to explore the fundamentals of drawing.
He starts out in the initial installment, Getting back to the Phantom Skill, pointing out that drawing is a pleasurable activity and open to any of us. He describes the structure of the 12 week series, in which he will teach fundamental drawing skills and use art, his own and examples from art history, to illustrate points and move the reader/student deeper into the process, understanding and appreciation of drawing.
During the 12 weeks in which he is working on the column, he will be working on professional assignments doing posters for Lincoln Center Theatre and illustrations for a children’s book, and may include work in progress as it applies.
He states: “My overall goal, apart from helping with specific information, is to communicate the enthusiasm I feel for the immediacy of drawing.” 
This promises to be a basic short course in drawing for those who think they can’t draw, and a nice kick in the pants for those who can but have forgotten, for one reason or another, how much fun it is.
The required materials? Pencil and paper.
(Images at left, shoe drawing from the article, others from James McMullan’s website)
 


Link: Line by Line, NYT
(Chapter 1) Getting Back to the Phantom Skill
http://jamesmcmullan.com

Posted in:  Drawing,Tools and Techniques   |   7 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






