things to do in boston this weekend




thingstodoinbostonthisweekend.com things to do in boston this weekend



Follow me on TwitterRSS Feeds

Home
hotels in boston
cheap hotels in boston
Privacy Policy
















Wardell Quezergue

Sep 12th


Posted by editor in content 
No comments










Quezergue (pronounced “ka-zair”) was not well known to the general public, preferring to remain out of the spotlight; but any recording bearing the production credit “Big Q” indicates that Quezergue oversaw the session and is a guarantee of quality. Nicknamed “the Creole Beethoven”, he was noted for his funky rhythms and syncopated horn arrangements, and was the man behind two big hits of the early 1970s – King Floyd’s Groove me and Jean Knight’s Mr Big Stuff.
Wardell Joseph Quezergue was born into a Creole family in the 7th Ward district of New Orleans on March 12 1930. 
Both his parents played musical instruments, and encouraged their son to take up the trumpet. Leaving high school before graduation, Wardell enlisted in the US Army and was posted to Tokyo, where his musical skills found him appointed director of Army bands. in Tokyo he met and married Yoshi Tamaki. he served in the Korean War, but later said that his musical ability spared him from being sent to the front line. 
After being demobbed, Quezergue returned to New Orleans, where he enrolled in a local music school to study theory and composition. he then formed his own band, the Royal Dukes of Rhythm, beginning to show his talent for arrangement when he was hired to play on recording sessions.
In the mid-1960s he founded Nola Records, recording a succession of great rhythm and blues 45s by artists such as Robert Parker, Eddie Bo, Willie Tee, Earl King and Smokey Johnson, scoring a big American hit with Parker’s Barefootin’ in 1964. But running a small record label proved wearisome, as distributors were often reluctant to pay for the stock they had sold, and Nola closed down in 1968.
In 1970, however, Quezergue produced Jean Knight’s Mr Big Stuff and King Floyd’s Groove me in a single session at the Malaco recording studio in Jackson, Mississippi. At first he could find no label interested in issuing the recordings, forcing Malaco to set up a label of its own. when they issued the two songs, both were instant hits in New Orleans, leading to deals with Atlantic and Stax.
Mr Big Stuff reached No 2 in the US pop charts (No 1 in the R&B list) and Groove me made No 6, and was also top of the R&B charts. Both songs remain classics, and have been covered by other artists or sampled by rappers, while Malaco Records became one of America’s foremost soul and blues labels. 
Quezergue was suddenly a hot property, and his skills as an arranger were sought out by artists such as BB King, Willie Nelson, Wilson Pickett, the Supremes, the Pointer Sisters, Big Joe Turner – and Paul Simon, who used his services on the album There Goes Rhymin’ Simon.
In 1992 Quezergue produced and arranged Dr John’s Grammy-winning album Goin’ back to New Orleans. he then contributed to the blues musician Clarence “Gatemouth” Brown’s albums Gate Swings (1997) and American Music, Texas Style (1999). 
In 2000 he premiered A Creole Mass, a classical composition that drew on his experiences in the Korean War and the music of New Orleans. 
A diabetic, Quezergue was almost blind by 2005, the year in which Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans. he survived the disaster, but his house was badly damaged and he lost his entire collection of sheet music. in the following year benefit concerts were held to raise money on his behalf. 
Wardell Quezergue’s wife Yoshi Tamaki died earlier this year. he is survived by five sons and eight daughters. 
Wardell Quezergue



Technorati Tags: 1970s, Army Bands, Beethoven, Funky Rhythms, Graduation, groove, Horn Arrangements, Jean Knight, ka, King Floyd, Korean War, Local Music, Mr Big Stuff, Music School, Musical Ability, musical instruments, new orleans, spotlight, Trumpet, Us Army, Zair



1970s, Army Bands, Beethoven, Funky Rhythms, Graduation, groove, Horn Arrangements, Jean Knight, ka, King Floyd, Korean War, Local Music, Mr Big Stuff, Music School, Musical Ability, musical instruments, new orleans, spotlight, Trumpet, Us Army, Zair 




 Rex Ryan Encourages Cowboys Fans to Stay Home

Sep 12th


Posted by editor in content 
No comments




New York Jets head coach Rex Ryan doesn’t expect to see many Dallas Cowboys fans this weekend at MetLife Stadium,  since they’re the visiting team despite their large presence at Giants games over the years.
“I don’t know why they’d be here,” said Ryan. ”They’re coming into our stadium. It’s probably not recommended that you wear Cowboys stuff, I would think.”
Ryan made it clear that he hates the Cowboys.
“of course, when that’s one of your huge rivals, well of course you dislike them,” Ryan said. “this week, I can’t stand Dallas, but I’m a huge fan of theirs for the next 15 games in the regular season, but I don’t like them right now.”
It’s week one and Ryan is already stirring things up a bit.  It’s nice and refreshing to know that the regular season is finally here.
Rex Ryan Encourages Cowboys Fans to Stay Home








Technorati Tags: dallas cowboys, Fans, giants games, Head Coach, Metlife, New York Jets, presence, Rex Ryan, Rivals, Stuff



dallas cowboys, Fans, giants games, Head Coach, Metlife, New York Jets, presence, Rex Ryan, Rivals, Stuff 




Jets notes: Plaxico's countdown

Sep 12th


Posted by editor in content 
No comments





 Plaxico’s countdown 
Apparently the most controversial question Plaxico Burress has had to answer this week did not come from the media, but from his biggest fan.
The Jets’ wide receiver told reporters Thursday that his 4-year-old son “wants to know who throws the better ball, [Mark] Sanchez or Eli [Manning].”
“So I’ve got to go through that every day with him,” Burress added, his revelation drawing laughter as he stood behind the lectern for his post-practice news conference.
When reporters requested an answer, Burress joined in the laughing and managed to playfully dodge any further questions on the subject.
The Jets are counting on Burress to be just as agile Sunday night when he plays in a regular-season game for the first time since 2008 with the Giants following his 21-month prison term that resulted from his carrying an illegal firearm into New York City.
“I don’t have any limitations,” said Burress, who estimated his ankle feels about 92 to 93 percent. “It’s right where I want it to be.”
 ‘Not good enough’ 
Jets special teams coordinator Mike Westhoff offered up a simple reason as to why the team was fine with Steve Weatherford leaving for the Giants as a free agent.
“Just wasn’t good enough,” Westhoff said. “I don’t want to be [ranked] 23rd [in punting average] in the NFL.”
With the Jets last season, Weatherford did match an NFL record for most punts inside the 20 (42).
“I was very happy in Steve with some things he did [and] very, very disappointed in others,” Westhoff said. “To tell you the truth, I don’t want to be 23rd … I’m trying to get better, so that’s why we made the move.”
Westhoff said he has confidence new punter T.J. Conley can do the job after beating out Chris Bryan in training camp.
“I know he can. now, is he going to? I don’t know that,” Westhoff said. “But he had a great practice [Thursday] and we see some [positive] things.”
FB John Conner (ankle) and QB mark Brunell (calf) were again limited in practice Thursday. Conner said he is on schedule and his plans to play Sunday have not changed.
Jets notes: Plaxico's countdown


Technorati Tags: countdown, dodge, eli manning, Giants, jets, laughter, leav, Lectern, mark sanchez, Mike Westhoff, New York City, News Conference, Plaxico Burress, playfully, practice news, Prison Term, Revelation, Season Game, Wide Receiver



countdown, dodge, eli manning, Giants, jets, laughter, leav, Lectern, mark sanchez, Mike Westhoff, New York City, News Conference, Plaxico Burress, playfully, practice news, Prison Term, Revelation, Season Game, Wide Receiver 




12345»102030...Last »








 

 

 

 




 

Recent CommentsRandom Search Termsnutrition theme 2011 jingleswhale shark (michael jackson)zodiac killer hoodrashad lewis Landon fianceekim kardashian psoriasisJeff Porter runnerhow to enable touchpad on hp probook 4525smulti rotorgorgeous girlfriend in bikinicody simpson at arizona mills 















   Amazon.com Widgets
 










Mystique theme by digitalnature | Powered by WordPress  RSS Feeds XHTML 1.1 Top




















