Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Texas wildfires”
        
                                



Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:51 AM





Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster School Road near Needville, Texas, on Wednesday afternoon, Sept. 7, 2011. (AP Photo/The Courier, Patric Schneider)Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.


            Continue reading Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires .
        





Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours from Texas Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:18 PM





Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011. (Erech Schlegal/AP Photo)In the last 48 hours, 852 homes have been consumed in the flames of Texas wildfires as dozens of blazes continue to sear the drought-plagued state, according to the Texas Forest Service.


            Continue reading 852 Homes Lost in 48 Hours from Texas Wildfires .
        





Texas Fire May Keep Rick Perry from Wednesday's Presidential GOP Debate 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:12 PM





Gov. Rick Perry holds a news conference to discuss wildfires in Texas on Monday. Perry has curtailed his campaigning to deal with the fires. (Eric Gay / Associated Press / September 6, 2011)Citing the press of business from wildfires ranging across Texas, Gov. Rick Perry, the front-runner in most polls for the GOP presidential nomination, on Tuesday left it up in the air as to whether he will attend Wednesday's Republican candidates debate.


            Continue reading Texas Fire May Keep Rick Perry from Wednesday's Presidential GOP Debate .
        





Texas Battles Raging Wildfires


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  5:39 AM





CLICK HERE TO VIEW SLIDESHOW ON FLICKR






Wildfires Burn Across Texas: "We Got a Long Way to Go" 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:39 AM





A fire rages near Highway 71 east of Bastrop, Texas, on Monday Sept. 5, 2011. A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner)Shannon Lilie had five minutes to flee her home, but she was frozen.


            Continue reading Wildfires Burn Across Texas: "We Got a Long Way to Go" .
        





Rick Perry in South Carolina: Keep Praying for Rain 


    
                By UCN on September  5, 2011  2:23 PM





Republican presidential candidate and Texas Governor Rick Perry speaks to workers at Epoch Homes August 18, 2011 in Pembroke, New Hampshire. (Darren McCollester/Getty Images North America)Texas Gov. Rick Perry came out swinging today in South Carolina, making his fiercest hit yet on former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and his record as a job creator.


            Continue reading Rick Perry in South Carolina: Keep Praying for Rain .
        





2 Dead from Texas Wildfires, Rick Perry Leaves Campaign Trail to Return to State 


    
                By UCN on September  5, 2011  1:06 PM





A fire burns a home in Steiner Ranch west of Austin, Texas, on Sunday afternoon, Sept. 4, 2011. The fires are forcing evacuations in Pflugerville, Steiner Ranch and Bastrop County. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner)Sixty separate wildfires, whipped by strong gusts of wind spawned by Tropical Storm Lee as it moved north, burned across Texas on Monday, destroying homes and leaving at least two people dead, authorities said.


            Continue reading 2 Dead from Texas Wildfires, Rick Perry Leaves Campaign Trail to Return to State .
        





Texas Battles Out-of-Control Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on April 11, 2011  7:46 AM






Austinites Respond to West Texas FiresAbout 30 firefighters from the Austin area have responded to massive wildfires in west Texas.Out-of-control wildfires in Texas have scorched nearly 400 square miles and destroyed dozens of homes as hot, windy conditions fuel the blazes.


            Continue reading Texas Battles Out-of-Control Wildfires .
        





                                    1
                                










 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










