Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire | State | News from Fort Worth, Dallas, ...');
    }
-->


























Star-Telegram.com
Reader services

Contact us
Advertise with us
Get the paper
e-Edition
Press Pass
Pay your bill
Photo store
Temporary start/stop
Newspapers in Education
S-T on Kindle
Site Map
More


Our network of sites

Accents Shopping
Arlington Citizen-Journal
Colleyville Courier
DFW.com
dfwVarsity
Diario La Estrella
Goodfellows
Grapevine Courier
Indulge Luxury Magazine
Keller Citizen
Mansfield News-Mirror
Mom2Mom
Southlake Journal
Times-Register
Weatherford Telegram






|Forecast













Log out| Your account








Star-Telegram.com



Archives



Web










Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH















Home 

e-Edition
Traffic
Weather
e-Newsletters
Weddings
Click
Pets
Place a Classified ad
Advertising media kit
Contact us
Subscribe


News

Local
Blogs
Census
Texas
Dallas
Crime
Watchdog
Politics
2012 Campaign
Legislature
Schools
U.S.
World
Weird


Obituaries

Today's obituaries
Submit an obituary
Search obituaries
Create memorial website
Send flowers
Send a gift
Sign up for obituary alerts


Sports

Cowboys
Blogs
Rangers
Mavericks
Stars
Colleges
TCU
Columnists
Cats
High Schools
Motorsports/TMS
Brahmas
More


That's Racin'
DFW Varsity
Outdoors
Golf
Boxing
Tennis
Soccer





Business

Barnett Shale
Barnett Shale Blog
Airlines & Aviation
SkyTalk Blog
Tarrant Business
Columnists
Mitchell Schnurman
Business Wire


Entertainment

TV Guide
Music
Dining
Find a restaurant
Search listings
Movies & TV
Events
Nightlife
Best of DFW
Books
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscopes


Life & Arts

Arts
Books
Food
Health
Travel
Home & Garden
Weddings
TV Guide
Comics
Pets
Mom2Mom
Religion
Puzzles
Horoscopes
Click


Request coverage
Browse photos
Social Eyes



Opinion

Editorials
Columnists
Letters to the Editor
Cheers and Jeers
Linda Campbell
Mike Norman
J.R. Labbe
Bob Ray Sanders
More


Steve Jacob
Leonard Pitts
Cal Thomas
George Will




Cars

New cars
Used cars
Sell your car
Star-Cars DFW
Boats
Motorcycles
RVs
Classic vehicles
DFW RV Dealers
Display auto ads


Homes

Find a home
Sell your home
Commercial property
Ranches, Farm and Land
Apartments for rent
Houses for rent
List a rental
Display real estate ads


Classifieds

Place an ad
Find an ad
Jobs
Cars
Homes
Pets
Merchandise
Obituaries
Legal Notices


Jobs

Find a job
Post a job
Featured Employers
Job videos
Virtual career expo


Shopping

FindnSave
Deal Saver
Local Coupons
Grocery Coupons
Newspaper ads
Circular Headquarters
Classified ads
MyDFW Store
Accents








 

 


 













Home > News > State



State




RSS
 Mobile
Newsletters




Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire
Posted Wednesday, Sep. 07, 2011

0 comments


 Print
Reprints


Share





Topics:
Texas,
	
	
	
	
	Texas Commissions


Tags:
Texas Forest Service






Article
Photos (24)
Comments 



A





View photos


Homes gone, Possum Kingdom residents take stock




Bastrop cancels classes all week due to wildfires





   Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week




   Officials: 2 killed in massive Central Texas blaze




   Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm




   Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm




   Crews make gains against raging blaze near Austin




   Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes



Have more to add? News tip? Tell us

Post a comment on this story
Send us a news tip
Express your opinion in a letter to the editor






By APRIL CASTROAssociated Press


BASTROP, Texas — 




    Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place."It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday."I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough."The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring."Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry."It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."


Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.
Looking for comments?




Previous

Next


Play/Pause

 

AP 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP Photo 


AP 




We welcome your comments on this story, but please be civil. Do not use profanity, hate speech, threats, personal abuse, images, internet links or any device to draw undue attention. Comments deemed inappropriate will be removed and repeated abusers will be banned. NOTE: If you log in using your Twitter account, your comments will be signed using the name on your Twitter profile, NOT your Twitter user name. Read our full comment policy.




















Other favorites:

Cowboys
Rangers
Mavs
Stars
TCU
UT
A&M
Tech
OU
UTA
UNT
SMU





Most popular


Most-read stories

Wreck in Arlington kills three teenagers
Three sexual-assault cases reported at or near TCU over nine days
Tarrant water limits working better than expected
Texas A&M may consider independent schedule rather than stay in Big 12
Optimism surfaces that Big 12 can be salvaged without Texas A&M


























Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Copyright
Contact us
Report a problem
Advertise with us
About the McClatchy company


Arlington Citizen-Journal
Colleyville Courier
Grapevine Courier
Keller Citizen
Mansfield News-Mirror
Southlake Journal
Times-Register
Weatherford Telegram










 

 



















Report comment as: (required)
X



Obscenity/vulgarity
Hate speech
Personal attack
Advertising/Spam
Copyright/Plagiarism
Other



			Remarks: (optional)
		





