Jaguars release Garrard | Philadelphia Daily News | 2011-09-07 | Fast Lane Soup



E-LaneInformation Fast Lane





 



Newton Throws for 422 Yards but Arizona Wins 28-21Jets' Plaxico Burress grabs key TD catch against Cowboys in official returnNEW vs USED: A Hyundai Equus vs. BMW 750iRex to Rob: 'See you in the Super Bowl'Late turnovers help Rex win battle of RyansJets' Plaxico Burress shares key TD catch against Cowboys with his sonFast start to season is crucial for Tony Romo and CowboysFast start to season is crucial for Tony Romo and CowboysSunday Night Football: Dallas Cowboys at New York JetsSunday Night Football: Dallas Cowboys at New York Jets 




 
 

Jaguars release Garrard | Philadelphia Daily News | 2011-09-07





We take a look at the news that David Garrard has been released by the Jacksonville Jaguars. Is he an option for the 49ers backup QB position?
David Garrard Cut by Glitter Kitties. This is weird considering the massive contract extension he signed just three years ago. But it looks like we'll see Luke McCown twice this year. Mario! Supper's on, it's your favorite:
The Jaguars have released quarterback David Garrard. "He just wasn't able to get it going this preseason," Head Coach Jack Del Rio said in making the announcement along with General Manager Gene Smith. "He even
The Jacksonville Jaguars will soon announce that quarterback David Garrard is being released. He becomes a free agent, able to sign with any team he wishes and that wants him. Two things are clear: Garrard wants to remain a starter in the league.
David Garrard Cut by Glitter Kitties. This is weird considering the massive contract extension he signed just three years ago. But it looks like we'll see Luke McCown twice this year. Mario! Supper's on, it's your favorite:
Posts Related to Jaguars release Garrard | Philadelphia Daily News | 2011-09-07Jaguars cut inconsistent Garrard, save $9mYou might not be surprised by that list, except for the one listed for the Jaguars. According to Jay Glazer of FOX Sports, the Jaguars ...Jaguars release Garrard, will start McCown at QBThe Jaguars have released quarterback David Garrard. "He just wasn't able to get it going this preseason," Head Coach Jack Del Rio said in making ...SportsNation Blog Archives David GarrardYour best source for quality Baltimore Ravens news, rumors, analysis, stats and scores from the fan perspective.We take a look at the news that David ...Jaguars dump Garrard as quarterbackBy AP, JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — The Jacksonville Jaguars have signed seven players to their practice squad, including former San Francisco 49ers receiver Tyler Beiler. The ...Jaguars release veteran quarterback GarrardNot only did the news of runningback Rashad Jennings going to injured reserve deal a blow to the Jacksonville Jaguars and their fans, but it ...Texans' Foster will miss openerAnthony Gonzalez and Jerry Hughes are inactive for today's game.In years past, that rather large blemish might have been explained away by the fact the ...Bears to sign Pro Bowl safety Brandon MeriweatherBy The Associated PressFOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- Brandon Meriweather, Tommie Harris and Larry Johnson are former Pro Bowl players now looking for jobs. The three were ...










				© 2011 
					Fast Lane Soup				



 Privacy Policy
Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

 



 

