HR Top Picks




Translate










No one logged in. Log in





HomeCurrent Responses Volunteer ToolBox Blogs NewsAnimals In Disaster About Us Guest BookCalendarWorld PeaceDonationsHR TalkHR Top PicksHR Map NewsMessage from FoundersLeadershipFriendsAnnual ReportFAQContact UsEvent DiaryBrazilMinot USANebraska USAHurricane IreneWildfiresUS FloodsSign-upSign-InAbout Our VolunteersForumsMap DirectoryHR VideoMobile AppsAnimals In Disaster DigestRedcrossdog_BlogMinot Flood 2011 - Animals in Disaster










Tweet






HR Top Picks
This blog collects emerging information in the area of the use of social media and technology used during disaster response.  This includes research, drills, lessons learned from active responses and other tips.  Humanity Road does not endorse all content provided by the authors of the material listed but encourages open dialogue for ongoing development and improvement of crisis response.  Submit YOUR TOP PICK to press at humanityroad.org

 
 Living With Wildfire 
 Christine Thompson - Wednesday, September 07, 2011 
 

Living With Wildfire is a guide for the homeowner - presented by Burn Institute.  This 16 page guide is filled with valuable information that every homeowner should know if you live in an area prone to wildfire.  The material has content that is specific to California but the general information on preparedness is excellent for anyone living in a wildfire area.
 Select below to open the PDF brochure 
 


 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Tips for Communicating in Disaster from Verizon 
 Christine Thompson - Tuesday, August 30, 2011 
 It's critical that you consider how to stay in touch with family, friends and the workplace before, during and after an emergency. Verizon offers some helpful tips for you and your family during extreme situations like the hurricanes, floods or other natural disasters. 

These tips will help you to stay connected during severe weather. 

Communicating - Are You Ready?






Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Survival Guides - Top Picks 
 Catherine Graham - Saturday, August 20, 2011 
 U.S. Army Survival Guide is this week's top pick.  This app is for an android phone and is free.  Its easy to read, contains a wealth of information, photos pictures and well organized.  Best of all, its free.  If you have a good Iphone app which you would like to recommend please chime in.  The Iphone App SAS Survival Guide is listed in our mobile app directory, http://www.humanityroad.org/MobileApps however it does have a $5.99 charge.  What's on your phone?  Let us know what you like




Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Water Everywhere But Not A Drop To Drink 
 Christine Thompson - Saturday, August 06, 2011 
 
Water - the most basic and plentiful resource on Earth.

But in a disaster, water is the most difficult resource to maintain in a supply that is free from contamination and in quantities sufficient to meet the needs of those impacted by disaster.  Here is one of our top picks for creative solutions for providing a safe water supply in a disaster.

Man Makes Drinking Water Out of Air
Granite Shoals, TX (CNN) - Water out of air? A Texas man has invented a machine that does just that, and it's already caught the eye of some celebrities.
Video



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Pediatric Disaster Preparedness Curriculum Development Conference Report 
 Catherine Graham - Wednesday, July 20, 2011 
 On March 8-9, 2011, the NCDMPH held the Pediatric Disaster Preparedness Curriculum Development Conference in Bethesda, MD.
The conference was convened in order to gather world-renowned pediatricians, surgeons, nurses and emergency responders to address the unmet education and training needs of medical responders who care for children in disasters. Specifically, the two objectives were: 

1.) To initiate the infrastructure and methodology to create a competency based pediatric disaster preparedness training program. 
2.) To demonstrate this approach by developing prioritized, role-specific education and training recommendations for select healthcare roles.

To accomplish this, conference attendees were broken up into three groups to establish role-specific recommendations by filling in, modifying and adding on to a previously designed template of pediatric education and training recommendations.
The three groups each corresponded to disaster response personnel who would be characterized as "Ambulatory Care Clinicians," "Emergency Department Hospital Staff" or "EMS First Responders."

Click on the report below to open and read it.  [PDF]




News Release:

Learning to Care for Those in Harm’s Way 
Uniformed Services University 
of the Health Sciences 
4301 Jones Bridge Road 
Bethesda, MD 20814-4799 
Release No.11-07-78 July 5, 2011 
Contact: Ken Frager, Office of External Affairs 
Voice: 301-295-3981 Cell: 240-281-2738 
Email: kenneth.frager@usuhs.mil 

For Immediate Release: 
NCDMPH Releases Conference Report on Pediatric Disaster Preparedness Education 
Bethesda, MD – The National Center for Disaster Medicine and Public Health (NCDMPH) has released the 
Pediatric Disaster Preparedness Curriculum Development Conference Report, a summary of the proceedings, 
outcomes and next steps that were intended as the first step toward establishing a role-specific, competencybased, 
pediatric disaster preparedness education and training program. 
The conference, held March 8-9, 2011, in Bethesda, Maryland, brought together world-renowned pediatricians, 
surgeons, nurses and emergency responders to begin to address the unmet education and training needs of 
medical responders who care for children in a disaster. Specifically, role-specific recommendations were 
discussed for personnel who would be characterized as “Ambulatory Care Clinicians,” “Emergency Department 
Hospital Staff” or “EMS First Responders.” 

The report outlines the objectives accomplished, including the identification of the many health care provider 
roles that need to be trained, the priority of their training and the preliminary curriculum recommendations for 
the three previously mentioned personnel categories. 
“The initial effort by the conference attendees was absolutely phenomenal,” said Kandra Strauss-Riggs, 
academic joint program coordinator and conference co-chair. “These templates and recommendations give us a 
solid foundation for accomplishing our goal of developing an education and training program designed to 
improve the safety and health of children during a disaster.” 

To read the full report and learn more about the NCDMPH’s work, visit http://ncdmph.usuhs.edu. 
### 
About NCDMPH: 
Created by Presidential Directive HSPD-21 in 2008, the NCDMPH has been charged with “leading Federal 
efforts to develop and propagate core curricula, training and research related to medicine and public health in 
disaster” by serving the U.S. government as an academic home for the development and dissemination of this 
information. The NCDMPH is supported by the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, the 
nation’s only federal health sciences university. 

About the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences 
Located on the grounds of Bethesda’s National Naval Medical Center and across from the National Institutes of 
Health, USU is the nation’s federal school of medicine and graduate school of nursing. The university educates 
health care professionals dedicated to career service in the Department of Defense and the U.S. Public Health 
Service. Students are active-duty uniformed officers in the Army, Navy, Air Force and Public Health Service, 
who are being educated to deal with wartime casualties, natural disasters, emerging infectious diseases, and other 
public health emergencies. Of the 4,546 physician alumni, more than 75 percent currently serve on active duty in 
the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and U.S. Public Health Service. Additionally, many alumni are assigned to 
provide medical support to Marine Corps and Coast Guard units.



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Recipe of Life - Recette de la Vie  
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, July 17, 2011 
 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Great Video Analysis Kermadec Quake 
 Catherine Graham - Thursday, July 07, 2011 
 Excellent video compilation explaining the dynamics of the 7.6 Quake on 7.6  from earthquake-report.com 
The founders of Earthquake-Report.com also have QuakeSOS mobile solutions.



Source:  http://earthquake-report.com/2011/07/06/massive-earthquake-in-the-open-sea-far-away-from-populated-areas/



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Technology Volunteers Applications for U.S. Disaster Response and Recovery 
 Catherine Graham - Friday, July 01, 2011 
 The value and application for utilizing volunteers during crisis.  A white paper from Mary Meade, Technology Volunteer, FEMA R-IV Reservist, Geospatial Intelligence Unit Lead/DAE.  You can follow Marry on Twitter: @kg6zlw.   Excerpt: 

Executive Summary 

 
This paper discusses the emerging use of Technology Volunteers in disaster response, as well as 
recommends ways to plug them into local, state and FEMA response operations. The temptation 
is to see these Technology Volunteers as another Social Media initiative when, in fact, Social 
Media is just a small part of what they do. This emerging powerhouse of educated and willing 
technology professionals worldwide are the “Cognitive Surplus” spoken of by Clay Shirky, in his 
June, 2010 TED address. Their capabilities have been frequently tapped by the United Nations 
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), American Red Cross, and many 
other humanitarian aid organizations world-wide. They have experience interfacing with 
corporations, military, universities, and each other to rapidly and creatively meet emerging 
response requirements. 

Need maps? They do GIS analysis, remote sensing damage derivations, Inter-active Community 
Maps (Crowdsourcing), Web-Maps, and even Maps from Twitter messages. 

Need Project Coordination? They do training, ground support, translations, project over-site 
using online collaboration tools, including Google and Skype.
 
Need technology solutions on the fly? They perform back-end software development, create 
new, field driven, applications overnight, and deploy high tech communication teams to ground 
zero. 

Need Data-Management solutions? They rapidly collect, scrub, parse, host, distribute, analyze, 
and even report most any kind of data using cyber teams collaborating around the world. 

Need a Social Media solution? They have done it all: pulling aggregated crowd sourced postings 
into big picture summaries; like Ham Radio emergency communications, they have interfaced 
with ground teams to pass down life-saving messages; collaborated with EOC PIOs to push 
unified messaging to the public through their established social networks; sifting through online 
news media sites, Facebook sites, government web pages, utility websites, and 10’s of thousands 
of twitter postings. These social media experts can make sense of the vast volumes of data that 
balloons up within minutes of a catastrophic event and stay on top of it through a network of 
technology professionals that volunteer their time on a 24 hour clock around the world. 

The goal of this paper is to expand the awareness of these organizations, their capabilities, and 
their tools that are made available to any emergency management organization around the world. 
It also provides suggestions as to how organizations following the FEMA National Response 
Framework (NRF) can integrate these capabilities into existing structures to expand their 
capacity to respond to rapidly emerging, and dynamically evolving, life-saving and lifesustaining 
needs.  Read more

To download and read the PDF click on the image below.  
Technology Volunteers with Applications for U.S. Disaster Response and Recovery, Mary Meade, April 10, 2011


 
 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 10 Things I Love About Louisville Kentucky 
 Catherine Graham - Tuesday, June 28, 2011 
 Sometimes, we just need to see how it is done.  Today, my top pick is Louisville, Kentucky.  It does not surprise me that Louisville’s website won the Digital Government 2010 Best of the Web Award.
.  You really need to just explore the whole site to appreciate its simplicity, robustness and the value this information brings to the public when the information is there BEFORE a disaster strikes. Last week, when a tornado struck near Louisville, I found this website extremely useful immediately.  Kudos Louisville.  Here are the top 10 things I love about this website;
1.    Mobile Website option
2.    Click for live help
3.    Downloadable Apps
4.    Easy search boxes
5.    Disaster Preparedness Info
6.    Utilities Info
7.    Power Outage info on the homepage
8.    Social Media page 
9.    A City Twitter List 
10. Kick Ass Interactive Map (can I say that online?)








Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Learn Three Digits Call 911 
 Catherine Graham - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 
 In the USA please call or seek local emergency services for urgent care.  Twitter, facebook and other social media site are not your first path of choice when seeking urgent care.  Stay safe out there and thank you Farooq and FDNY!




Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink



 
Previous  1  2 3 Next 


Recent Posts
 Living With WildfireTips for Communicating in Disaster from VerizonSurvival Guides - Top PicksWater Everywhere But Not A Drop To DrinkPediatric Disaster Preparedness Curriculum Development Conference ReportRecipe of Life - Recette de la Vie Great Video Analysis Kermadec QuakeTechnology Volunteers Applications for U.S. Disaster Response and Recovery10 Things I Love About Louisville KentuckyLearn Three Digits Call 911 
Tags
  Disaster Preparedness Government Joplin Animals in Disaster Evacuation Ghana Texas Fire Haiti Pediatic National Preparedness Month 2011 Social Media Volunteer USA FEMA California Be Prepared, Are you ready, emotional, psychological Missouri Video Slideshow Education Public Information Red Cross water crowdsourcing Disaster Animals roundtable tsunami   Animals in Disaster (1) Be Prepared, Are you ready, (5) California (1) crowdsourcing (1) Disaster Animals (1) Disaster Preparedness (6) Education (3) emotional, psychological (1) Evacuation (2) FEMA (1) Fire (2) Ghana (1) Government (2) Haiti (1) Joplin (1) Missouri (1) National Preparedness Month 2011 (1) Pediatic (1) Public Information (2) Red Cross (2) roundtable (1) Slideshow (5) Social Media (6) Texas (3) tsunami (1) USA (2) Video (2) Volunteer (2) water (1) 
Archive
 September 2011 (1)August 2011 (3)July 2011 (4)June 2011 (4)May 2011 (4)April 2011 (5)March 2011 (5) 

 

Go Back

Humanity Road, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to educating the public with critical recovery information before, during and after a catastrophic disaster. Humanity Road, Inc. and its global volunteers endeavor to provide information that is useful, timely and as accurate as possible, however, they should not be viewed as an authoritative source. Please do not rely solely on the content of this web site for emergency response decision making without verification through alternate sources.

       
                                  


            
                   

                      
 
        Copyright © Humanity Road, Inc. 2011. All Rights Reserved.
        Design meets function at Kerkian Consulting, LLC.

















