Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Tropical Storm Lee”
        
                                



Entire Towns Under Water as River begins to Recede in Pennsylvania, New York 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  3:58 PM





Floodwaters of the Susquehanna River partially submerge homes and an SUV  in West Pittston, Pa., Friday. (Matt Rourke / Associated Press)Northern stretches of the swollen Susquehanna River began receding Friday after days of rainfall from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee flooded communities from Virginia to New York, leading to evacuation orders for nearly 100,000 people. Some evacuees were allowed back home.


            Continue reading Entire Towns Under Water as River begins to Recede in Pennsylvania, New York .
        





Tropical Storm Lee: Northeast Flooding


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  6:02 AM





CLICK HERE TO VIEW SLIDESHOW ON FLICKR






100K Told to Flee Northeast Flooding Caused by Lee 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  1:32 AM





Six people are stranded on the back of a pickup truck awaiting rescue as flood waters rise around them, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011 in Mount Joy, Pa. (AP Photo/Intelligencer Journal, Blaine Shahan)The flooding of the Susquehanna River is the worst in nearly 40 years


            Continue reading 100K Told to Flee Northeast Flooding Caused by Lee .
        





Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:51 AM





Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster School Road near Needville, Texas, on Wednesday afternoon, Sept. 7, 2011. (AP Photo/The Courier, Patric Schneider)Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.


            Continue reading Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires .
        





Bastrop, Texas Wildfire 30% Contained


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  3:05 PM





Danielle Prieto, 17, sits outside a neighbor's destroyed home after residents were allowed to return to the Steiner Ranch neighborhood of Austin, Texas. The home was one of many burned by wildfires which began to spread into the area Sunday. ( Shannon Kintner / The Daily Texan / September 6, 2011 )A favorable shift in weather conditions is giving Texas firefighters their first chance to make inroads against devastating wildfires that have been roaring across the state.


            Continue reading Bastrop, Texas Wildfire 30% Contained.
        





Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





4 Dead from Tropical Storm Lee, Another Gulf Storm May Be on the Way  


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  1:42 PM





Squalls and heavy surf pounds homes along the beach in Dauphin Island, Ala., Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. (AP Photo/Dave Martin)Heavy rain from the former Tropical Storm Lee rolled northeast into Appalachian states Tuesday, spreading the threat of flooding as far as New England after drenching the South, spawning tornadoes, sweeping several people away and knocking out power to thousands.


            Continue reading 4 Dead from Tropical Storm Lee, Another Gulf Storm May Be on the Way  .
        





2 Dead from Texas Wildfires, Rick Perry Leaves Campaign Trail to Return to State 


    
                By UCN on September  5, 2011  1:06 PM





A fire burns a home in Steiner Ranch west of Austin, Texas, on Sunday afternoon, Sept. 4, 2011. The fires are forcing evacuations in Pflugerville, Steiner Ranch and Bastrop County. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner)Sixty separate wildfires, whipped by strong gusts of wind spawned by Tropical Storm Lee as it moved north, burned across Texas on Monday, destroying homes and leaving at least two people dead, authorities said.


            Continue reading 2 Dead from Texas Wildfires, Rick Perry Leaves Campaign Trail to Return to State .
        





1 Dead from Tropical Storm Lee 


    
                By UCN on September  5, 2011  1:00 PM





Squalls and heavy surf pounds homes along the beach in Dauphin Island, Ala., Monday, Sept. 5, 2011. The heavy waves were breaking under homes, damaging underpinnings and ripping porches and steps from the structures. Tropical Storm Lee is moving inland along the Gulf Coast bringing torrential rains and flooding. (AP Photo/Dave Martin)A man drowned when he was swept away by floodwaters spawned by the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee in Mississippi, authorities said Monday.


            Continue reading 1 Dead from Tropical Storm Lee .
        





New Orleans Relieved to Find Lee Is No Katrina but Mayor Urges Residents to Remain Vigilant 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:50 PM





Cecil Flemming tries to maneuver his wheelchair through the waters on the Mandeville, La. lakefront of Lake Pontchartrain after waters crashed over the seawall from Tropical Storm Lee, on Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011. (AP Photo/The Times-Picayune, Ted Jackson)New Orleans suffered no "major hit" from Tropical Storm Lee but residents should remain vigilant, Mayor Mitch Landrieu said on Sunday.


            Continue reading New Orleans Relieved to Find Lee Is No Katrina but Mayor Urges Residents to Remain Vigilant .
        





Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:46 PM





Waves in Lake Pontchartrain from tropical storm Lee crash into a seawall in the West End section of New Orleans on Saturday, Sept. 3. Heavy rain and strong wind gusts from Lee knocked out power to thousands in south Louisiana and Mississippi. (Newscom)Tropical Storm Lee dumped more than a foot of rain in New Orleans and spun off tornadoes elsewhere Sunday as its center came ashore in a slow crawl north that raised fears of inland flash flooding in the Deep South and beyond.


            Continue reading Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland .
        





President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:23 PM





President Barack Obama walks with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Fayette Avenue in Wayne, N.J., Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011, as he visits flood damage caused by Hurricane Irene. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)President Barack Obama stood on a bridge overlooking the rain-swollen and fast-rushing Passaic River in Paterson, New Jersey's third-largest city, and said Sunday the federal government would work to rebuild towns recovering from Hurricane Irene's wrath.


            Continue reading President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery .
        





Tropical Storm Lee Dumps Rain on Lousiana, Gulf Coast 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  9:43 AM





Ernie Adams paddles his pirogue to his house after visiting his neighbors house in floodwaters from Bayou Barataria, in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Lee in the town of Jean Lafitte, La., just outside New Orleans, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2011. (Gerald Herbert/AP Photo)The center of Tropical Storm Lee stretched across the central Gulf Coast early Sunday, dumping torrential rains that threatened flooding in low-lying communities in a foreshadowing of what cities further inland could face in coming days.


            Continue reading Tropical Storm Lee Dumps Rain on Lousiana, Gulf Coast .
        





2011: A Year of Extreme Weather for Most of the U.S. 


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011 11:09 AM





A line of severe storms crosses the Mississippi River in Memphis, Tenn., passing by the Memphis Pyramid on Wednesday, May 25, 2011. The dark formation was reported a few minutes earlier as a tornado in West Memphis, Ark. (AP Photo/Lance Murphey)Nature is pummeling the United States this year with extremes.


            Continue reading 2011: A Year of Extreme Weather for Most of the U.S. .
        





Tropical Storm Lee: Louisiana Pounded with Rain


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011 11:05 AM





Heavy rain clouds from approaching Tropical Storm Lee form over the skyline of New Orleans at dusk Friday. (Gerald Herbert / Associated Press / September 2, 2011)Thick sheets of rain from Tropical Storm Lee pounded southern Louisiana on Saturday morning as the storm continued to loiter just offshore in the Gulf of Mexico, gathering strength with sustained winds  approaching 60 mph.


            Continue reading Tropical Storm Lee: Louisiana Pounded with Rain.
        





Tropical Storm Lee: Flooding in New Orleans as Other Areas Evacuated 


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011 11:04 AM





Water levels are up in the London Avenue Canal, Saturday, September 3, 2011, as seen from Robert E. Lee Boulevard, the site of the floodwall breech during Hurricane Katrina. (John McCusker/The Times-Picayune)New Orleans area residents awoke Saturday to multiple reports of tornadoes and flash flooding spawned by strong thunderstorms embedded in squall lines on the eastern perimeter of Tropical Storm Lee.


            Continue reading Tropical Storm Lee: Flooding in New Orleans as Other Areas Evacuated .
        





Tropical Storm Lee


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011  8:52 AM





CLICK HERE TO VIEW SLIDESHOW ON FLICKR






Rain from Tropical Storm Lee Hits Land, Gulf Coast States Brace for Flooding


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011  4:59 AM





A surfer waits with his board to surf on Thursday, Sept. 1, in Dauphin Island, Ala. (G.M. Andrews/Mobile Press-Register/AP)Heavy rains from Tropical Storm Lee were falling in southern Louisiana and pelting the Gulf Coast on Saturday as the storm's center trudged slowly toward land, where businesses were already beginning to suffer on what would normally be a bustling holiday weekend. The storm could bring as many as 20 inches of rain to some areas.


            Continue reading Rain from Tropical Storm Lee Hits Land, Gulf Coast States Brace for Flooding.
        





20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011 11:42 AM





This satellite image taken by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration early Friday shows the tropical depression advancing on the U.S. southeastern states. The storm is expected to intensify to tropical storm strength before making landfall in Louisiana on Saturday. (NOAA/AP)A tropical depression packing walloping rains for the Gulf Coast was spreading its rain bands Friday over southern Louisiana ahead of what forecasters warned could be a drenched Labor Day weekend across the region, with up to 20 inches in places.


            Continue reading 20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast.
        





Hurricane Katia: Forecasters Keep Eye on Potential Category 3 Storm 


    
                By UCN on September  1, 2011  1:02 PM





This NOAA satellite image shows tropical storm Katia in the Atlantic Ocean Tuesday. Katia is now a hurricane. (Newscom)Hurricane forecasters now have two storms to watch: Hurricane Katia could be on its way to becoming a category 3 storm, while a storm system in the Gulf could organize into tropical storm Lee within 48 hours.


            Continue reading Hurricane Katia: Forecasters Keep Eye on Potential Category 3 Storm .
        





                                    1
                                










 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










