lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » June






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Wednesday, June 30, 2010
Laraine Armenti

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:46 am 
 


There is much to be said for the simple, direct observation of our immediate surroundings, and the artistic expression of that observation. 
I find the results often have a visual charm that comes from the unassuming honesty of the act of observing and recording, unrestrained by the intention of “creating a work”. 
I see some of that simplicity of intention and directness of observation in the small gouache paintings of Massachusetts painter Laraine Armenti. 
You will find them as you browse through her blog, simple observations that look as though she has cast her eyes about the room and made a subject of whatever they find. 
Her direct, often delightfully graphic gouache studies are frequently accompanied by ink drawings of the same scene. I don’t know if these are preliminary or are actually done after the gouache paintings, but they are apparently done in the same session.
You will also find small landscapes on both her blog and her website, often in oil, as well as small still life paintings in oil (images above, bottom). 
Armenti majored in etching at the Rhode Island School of Design, but also studied art history, painting and photography; and went on to pursue a three year study of the figure in the studio of Ronald Rizzi. She established an 18 year career in illustration and graphic design before transitioning into gallery art.


Link: www.larainearmenti.com/blog
www.larainearmenti.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Watercolor and Gouache   |   5 Comments »


Tuesday, June 29, 2010
Sam Wolfe Connelly

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:47 pm 
 


Sam Wolfe Connelly is a young illustrator based in Virginia, who studied at the Savanah College of Art and Design (or SCAD as it’s colloquially known).
His work has been shown in the Society of Illustrators 2010 Student Show, Creative Quarterly, the 2009 SCADDY’s and on NewYorkTimes.com.
Connelly’s work, which is frequently a mix of digital and traditional media, utilizes a delicate lines, subdued textures and controlled colors; producing a restrained, understated look that is in keeping with his penchant for offbeat and occasionally macabre subjects.
I particularly like the relationship he creates between his foreground subjects and the rough and sometimes patterned textures of his backgrounds.
His website features a portfolio of finished work, along with sketches and a section of designs for T-shirts and other articles.
Connelly also maintains a blog in which he posts and discusses work in progress.


Link: www.samwolfeconnelly.com
Blog
Artistaday.com
Farmidable
Lost at E Minor
Changethethought

Posted in:  Illustration   |   1 Comment »



David Jon Kassan paints from life on an iPad

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:44 pm 
 


David Jon Kassan, a Brooklyn based artist  I wrote about in 2008, recently posted a short (7 minute) video to YouTube in which he is shown in time-lapse Finger Painting on the Apple iPad from the live model.
The iPad, for those who have been living in a cave in Tierra del Fuego until this morning, is Apple’s new touch-screen device, so Kassan is painting with his finger, a pretty blunt instrument compared to a brush, pencil or stylus.
Kassan is painting in Brushes, a very capable digital painting app for the iPhone and iPad that allows for most of the basic tools of digital painting, including, of course, the ability to zoom in on the work. 
Though it doesn’t allow for variations in pressure, a factor most of us who do digital drawing and painting have come to rely on, it does allow for changes in brush size and opacity, as you can see in the video. 
(For another mention of the Brushes iPhone app, see my post on the New Yorker covers of Jorge Colombo.)
Most of us associate digital painting with work from the imagination, particularly given its popularity in concept art and science fiction and fantasy illustration, but a number of people use it to sketch or paint from life. 
I’ve used a laptop, Painter software and a tablet and stylus to sketch and paint from the model, but it’s a bit of an awkward proposition. The lack of pressure sensitivity seems a fair trade-off for the easy portability and simplicity of the iPad (though you would want to make sure it was well-secured to your easel – grin).
Unlike the use of similar applications for the iPhone and Nintendo DS, the iPad is large enough to do more than small sketches. Kassan takes the painting pretty close to the state of a finished portrait.
Kassan has updated his website since I last wrote about him, including new work, a blog, and more videos. 

In particular he has released a new three-hour instructional DVD, Drawing Closer to Life (images above), that follows him through a day in the studio, documentary style, as he develops a fully realized charcoal drawing (using the same model as in the iPad painting, if I’m not mistaken).  There is a trailer for the video here.
[Via Daring Fireball]


Link: Finger Painting on the Apple iPad from the live model, David Kassan
http://davidkassan.com
Drawing Closer to Life
Blog
Additional YouTube videos
My previous post about David Jon Kassan

Posted in:  Digital Painting   |   9 Comments »


Monday, June 28, 2010
Mitch Baird

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:43 pm 
 


Oregon painter Mitch Baird paints the landscape of the Pacific Northwest, both dramatic and more intimate, with a fresh palette, confident brushwork and clear vision. 
He also applies his skills and passion for plein air painting to scenes from travels in Europe; and paints lively still life compositions and occasional figurative works.
Baird received a BFA in Illustration from Brigham Young University, where he credits Ralph Barksdale with inspiring and energizing him in his pursuit of drawing and painting. 
As a painter, Baird finds inspiration in artists of the late 19th Century, and follows their fascination with the effects of light and atmosphere, and the natural color that reveals itself when painting on location.


Link: www.mitchbaird.com
Blog
Art on the Boulevard, direct link
Painters Chair Fine Art
River Bend Fine Art
Evergreen Fine Art

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Sunday, June 27, 2010
Nuthin’ But Mech

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:45 pm 
 


Nothin’ But Mech is a group blog started by concept artist Lorin Wood and concept designer Scott Kester to indulge in their fascination with robots in all their wonderful widgety variety of shapes forms and functions.
They invited a number of their colleagues in the film and gaming industry to participate, and the result is a fun range of all manner of robots, exoskeletons, and other devices that make their way into a loose category of “mech”.
There is an equally diverse variety of drawing and rendering styles: pencil drawing, traditional painting, markers, digital painting and 3-D modeling, along with various combinations of the above.
There is an impressive list of contributors, many of whom I’ve featured previously here on Lines and Colors, and the links on the sidebar provide access to their websites and blogs where you can find a great range of concept art.
(Images above: Christian Pearce, Peter Rubin, Jake Parker, Lorin Wood, Ben Mauro, Marc Gabbana and Alex Jaeger. Links are to their sites; here are my posts on Christian Pearce, Jake Parker, Marc Gabbana, Alex Jaeger.)


Link: http://nuthinbutmech.blogspot.com

Posted in:  Illustration   |   6 Comments »


Saturday, June 26, 2010
Ni no Kuni – Studio Ghibli/Level-5 video game

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:54 pm 
 

Studio Ghibli, the animation studio of Hayao Miyazaki, which is responsible for some of the best Japanese animated films (and a number of my personal favorites, like My Neighbor Totoro and Spirited Away), is entering the video game arena, partnering with Level-5 game developers to produce a game called Ni no Kuni: Black Mage.
There is a brief trailer on YouTube that shows that Studio Ghibli will be bringing some of the style and visual charm of their hand drawn animation, along with their talent for all-ages fantasy storytelling, to the world of CGI gaming environments.  
Spirited Away is still the most popular movie of all time in Japan (animated or otherwise), and Miyazaki is revered there, so the game is expected to do well in Japan. It will be intresting to see how it does here. So far, Disney, which has the rights to distribute Studio Ghibli films in the U.S., has been unable (or unwilling) to market them well, so Miyazaki is not exactly a household word outside of Anime circles. 
There is a brief article about the Studion Ghibli/ Level-5 collaboration in the New York Times. 
[Via Cartoon Brew]


Link: Ni no Kuni trailer on YouTube

Posted in:  Animation   |   2 Comments »



Tony Ryder (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:35 am 
 


Tony Ryder is a noted contemporary draftsman and painter, author of the popular book The Artist’s Complete Guide to Figure Drawing and a well regarded teacher. 
He studied at the Rhode Island School of Design and the Art Student’s League in New York, and continued independent studies with Ted Seth Jacobs in New York and France.
Since then, Ryder has taught at the New York Academy, the Art Student’s League and independent workshops in the U.S. and France. Ryder is now the leader of the Ryder Studio School, a classical atelier in Santa Fe, new Mexico.
Ryder’s website includes selection of his drawings and paintings, primarily figure, portrait and still life. It also features a number of sequential images for a portrait demonstration. You can also find some brief instructional essays on the site of the Ryder Studio School.
There is also a blog for the Ryder Studio School that seems to largely chronicle activities at the school, but occasionally posts work and instructional sequences.
There is an additional selection of his work on the Art Renewal Center. For more, see my post on Anthony J. Ryder from 2006.


Link: www.tonyryder.com
The Ryder Studio School
Ryder Studio School blog
Art Renewal Center
Andreeva Gallery
My previous post on Anthony J. Ryder

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Friday, June 25, 2010
Charles Burchfield

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:50 am 
 


Charles Burchfield is probably one of the more important 20th Century American artists that most people have never encountered.
Burchfield’s work went through several phases. His early watercolors can have a simple, almost naive feeling. He went through a time when he settled into rather straightforward representations of landscapes. But his mid-career paintings, after he appears to have experienced some kind of transformative event, and later ones in which he returned to some of the same themes, are strikingly visionary and have a sophisticated graphic power.
There can be something of a Van Gogh like quality to his visionary work, in the simplification and intensification of pictorial elements. In his more prosaic pieces, he conveys some of the direct, blunt observation of everyday scenes found in the work of his friend Edward Hopper.
The mystical, visionary quality to Burchfield’s most interesting work is sometimes ecstatic, sometimes haunted — an edge of transcendent meaning vibrating just under the surface of the commonplace, where he saw God’s expression in nature. In that respect, I see parallels to the landscapes of Caspar David Friedrich. 
Burchfield mixes ink and gouache with his watercolor, also mixing painting and drawing conventions in the same image to wonderful effect. Objects dance, shimmer and vibrate, both with light and color and with linework and graphic effects.
He studied art for four years at the Cleveland Institute of Art, and then when on to the National Academy of Design in new York, but dropped out on the first day, apparently in embarrassment at being asked to draw from the nude model.
He returned to Ohio, secured a job designing wallpaper, and began to paint watercolors on his lunch hour. He then moved to Buffalo, New York, continued his work as a wallpaper designer and eventually quit to become a painter full time.
Burchfield suffered from some kind of emotional imbalance, prone to episodes of highs and lows, and at one point in his career experienced a dramatic episode that changed his work for many years after. 
He was already inventive in many of his pieces, incorporating influences from botanical illustrations, Japanese prints, illustrators like Arthur Rackham and Romantic artists like William Blake and Samuel Palmer; but after the event he began to incorporate a system of graphic symbols into his work that he had invented to convey specific negative emotions.
He eventually came to grips with his emotional states, seeming to balance out his life, but he also subdued the mystical aspects of his art for many years. He later returned to his earlier subjects and styles with renewed confidence and control.
There is a nice essay on Burchfield by Bruce MacEvoy on Handprint (see my post on the color and watercolor resources on Handprint).
There is a Burchfield Penney Art Center affiliated with Buffalo State College, supposedly dedicated to the art of Charles Burchfield and other artists of Western New York; but the museum’s website is inexplicably bereft of images of any sort, and therefore useless in determining if the institution is worth a visit.
The Whitney Museum in New York is currently displaying an exhibition titled Heat Waves in a Swamp: The Paintings of Charles Burchfield, that runs from now until October 17, 2010. There is a selection of images from the exhibition online. There is a review of the show on the NYT.


Link: Heat Waves in a Swamp: The Paintings of Charles Burchfield, Whitney Museum 6/24/10-10/17/10
The Athenaeum
CGFA
Phillips Collection (links at lower right)
Hammer Museum
Carnegie Museum
Art Institute of Chicago
Wichita Art Museum
Ciudad de la pintura
Artchive
Keny Galleries
Essay on Handprint
Redtree Times
Bio on Wikipedia
Artcyclopedia (links and museum listings)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Thursday, June 24, 2010
Steve Huston

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:04 pm 
 


Steve Huston studied at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena and embarked on an illustration career while still in school. After graduating he worked in illustration for 10 years, acquiring a client list that included MGM, Universal Studios and Paramount Pictures.
He then started to teach drawing, painting and composition at the Art Center, and later in corporate classes at Disney, Warner Brothers and Dreamworks. He has since transitioned into gallery art.
Though he occasionally does landscapes, the majority of Huston’s paintings are of figures. Of these his fascination with the complex geometry of the human form, and the surface topography of musculature, takes its greatest expression in his series of paintings of boxers, wrestlers and laborers. 
He presents these in dramatic chiaroscuro combined with areas of smudged, “lost” edges, rough paint textures and gestural expressions of motion. 
Huston lists among his influences Titian, Rembrandt and the early American Tonalist painters. I personally see the influence of Thomas Eakins in his work. Huston also cites American comic books for their graphic qualities and exaggeratedly heroic treatment of the figure.
Huston apparently no longer has a dedicated website, but is represented by several galleries. The Eleanor Ettinger Gallery has the largest selection of his work, though the reproductions are frustratingly small. 
Skotia Gallery has fewer pieces, but they are presented somewhat larger, along with a bio.


Link: Steve Huston at the Eleanor Ettinger Gallery
Skotia Gallery
Principle Gallery
Artnet

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   12 Comments »



Tom Wheeler

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:42 am 
 


Like many of us who come out of art school with concerns about the viability of gallery art as a source of livelihood, Tom Wheeler had a back-up plan, and devoted part of his attention to computer based design skills. Also like many of who who pursue a dual career path, he found he had a passion for both sides of his career.
He now divides his time between web site design and programming and his in interest in painting and drawing, and he teaches courses in both web design and drawing at the the Art Institute of Portland in Oregon.
His website showcases his work in both arenas of endeavor. In the Fine Art section you’ll find his paintings and drawings. Among the former are figurative, still life and landscape subjects. 
Standouts for me are his paintings of creeks and small streams with rocky beds, in which he finds great variety of color and tone in the facets of the rock forms, their surfaces both wet and dry and their shapes as refelcted and refracted in the water.
Wheeler’s site also has resources for his students, which include lists of favored illustrators and realist painters.
Wheeler also maintains a blog which is inclusive of both of his fields of interest.


Link: www.wheelercreek.com
www.wheelercreek.com/blog

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






