lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » May






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Monday, May 31, 2010
Scientific Analysis of Rembrandt’s Techniques for Guiding the Eye

Posted by Charley Parker at 5:06 pm 
 


Artists have long known, whether by intuition or study, how to direct a viewer’s eye through a painting. It’s always interesting, though, when researchers attempt to codify and study these aspects of vision and perception in scientific experiment.
Researchers at the University of British Columbia’s Vision Lab recently turned their attention to  Rembrandt’s incisive and justly famous portrait paintings in an attempt to identify the source of their visual power and appeal, and in the process, the techniques by which he commands your eye and directs it where he will.
It may not come as a surprise to artists who study such techniques that Rembrandt uses value contrasts, “lost and found edges”, and contrasting areas of texture to add interest, and grab and lead the eye; but the UBC researchers found ways to test the efficacy of the techniques by modifying photographs with some of the same characteristics and comparing the response to those and to control photographs without the specified characteristics.
You can read an abstract of their article, Rembrandt’s Textural Agency or the press release, UBC Researcher Decodes Rembrandt’s “Magic”, or download a PDF of the entire article, and see the gist of the techniques collected in a poster. 
For a great resource on Rembrandt, see Jonathan Jansen’s Rembrandt van Rijn: Life and Work.
[Via BoingBoing, with a thank you to James Bright of Ottawa]



Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Tools and Techniques,Vision and Optics   |   Comments »



Artists’ Self Portraits with Palettes

Posted by Charley Parker at 4:27 pm 
 


In a link from the article mentioned in my previous post on Master Artists’ Palettes, Lucy Davies pointed to a search on the Bridgeman Art Library for “self portrait palette“. This turns up range of artists’ self-portraits with their palette in hand, a fairly common arrangement given that the artist is usually holding a palette when painting a self portrait.
The linked images are on the small side, and unfortunately watermarked, but think of this as a jumping off point. The images are large enough to tell if you’re interested and the listings make it easy to do a broader search for the artist and their works, including the named self-portrait.
When looking to match a particular image, you might avail yourself of the specialty search engines that perform similarity based image search (my favorite is TinEye).
You can also try the same search on Google Images, though results tend to be more repetitive.
You can also search for simply “portrait palette” for a wider range of images not limited to self-portraits, and perhaps more likely to include views of the working part of the palette, often hidden by the angle in the self portraits.
There is also an excellent post by James Gurney on Gurney Journey about artists’ Palette Arrangements that is illustrated with portraits.
(Images above: Vincent van Gogh, Giovanni Fattori, Diego Velázquez, Sir John Everett Millais, Gustav Courbet, Rembrandt van Rijn; links are to my articles, Velázquez and Courbet images are crops from much larger compositions)


Link: "self portrait palette" search on Bridgeman Art Library
"portrait palette" search

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »



Master Artists’ Palettes

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:55 pm 
 


Writing in her blog on the Telegraph in an article titled Why preserve Van Gogh’s palette?, Lucy Davies points to some of the considerations for artists learning from the palettes of the masters, both in choice and arrangement of colors.
Those fascinated by the techniques of the great painters would benefit from understanding their palettes. Even when learning from contemporary artists, the palette plays a greater part than is often acknowledged. 
I always find instructional videos exasperating when they ignore color mixing and act as though the brush is always magically loaded with the the proper color, with little thought or work on the part of the artist. This seems to apply to a great majority of the instructional videos one encounters on the web, though those that are professionally prepared often address color mixing more thoroughly (as in the instructional videos of Richard Schmid).
There has, of course, been an effort to preserve the palettes of master artists when possible, even if only as historic artifacts. Davies’ article shows several, including those of Eugene Delacroix (image above, top), Gustave Moreau, Auguste Renoir, Georges Seurat and Edgar Degas (image above, bottom) .
If you look around, you can find other photos of famous artists’ palettes, as well as much verbal discussion and listing of the colors used by individual artists, including those of Delacroix, Whistler, Vermeer, Degas and Monet. Often these discussions will make a point of mentioning modern equivalents to fugitive colors used in the originals. 
In general, the range of colors available to artists has increased over time, with significant additions in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries as the range of materials increased and artificial pigments became widely explored, importantly reducing reliance on pigments that are not lightfast.
Davies also links to selections by art supplier Natural Pigments which sells sets of colors matched to Titian’s Palette and  Goya’s Palette.
The article is peppered with links and is a nice jumping off point on the subject, including links to discussion of color theory, another aspect of artists’ practice that has changed over time (see my post on the History of the Color Wheel).
[Via Neatorama]


Link: Why preserve Van Gogh's palette?, Lucy Davies, Telegraph

Posted in:  Color,Tools and Techniques   |   2 Comments »


Friday, May 28, 2010
Alexander Creswell

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:19 pm 
 


Alexander Creswell is a well known English watercolorist, carrying on in the traditions of the country in which watercolor first reached acceptance as a major art medium. 
He is noted for his association with British royalty, painting the Windsor Castle Royal Collection fire and restoration in a book Out of the Ashes and traveling as official artist with the Prince of Wales.
The images on his website are found in the sales gallery. He places emphasis on his watercolors and drawings of sailing yachts, showing them first in the gallery. Though these are beautifully done, they are not subjects I find personally compelling. 
I much prefer his urban landscapes of Venice, Florence and other places in Italy, as well as France, the UK and locations in the Middle East. These owe much to John Singer Sargent’s luminous watercolors of Venice, but of course this is a Good Thing.
You can skip ahead to the landscapes by going to page 10  in the numbered navigation at the bottom of the pages. It reverts to sailing subjects again after a while, and picks back up in Italy around 21 and again around 27 (this may change as new images are added to the galleries).
You can also see a smaller selection of his urban landscapes on the Portland Gallery site.
His watercolors capture that wonderful brilliant sunlight associated with the Mediterranean basin, whether in the intricate buildings of Venice or the rough stones of ancient ruins in Oman, rich with shimmering colors and light-filled compositions.
Unfortunately, most of the images on his site are watermarked, though not so egregiously as to make them unsuitable for viewing. 
Creswell also does large scale banners and hangings of his watercolor images that are used like murals. The gallery for these is accessed through an alternate entry from his site’s home page.


Link: www.alexandercreswell.net
Portland Gallery
Art Workers Guild

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Watercolor and Gouache   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, May 27, 2010
Animation Backgrounds

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:52 pm 
 

 
Quite often, the best part of an animated short or feature is the backgrounds. 
Since background images are onscreen for extended periods, and don’t need to change rapidly as do the characters, they are frequently the subject of intense design work and beautiful rendering.
For a demonstration of how wonderful animation backgrounds can be when isolated from the movie and empty of characters, visit the Animation Backgrounds blog.
Maintained by Rob Richards, this is a treasure trove of stills from animated shorts and full length features that showcase the background artist’s work.
There are lots of terrific scenes from animated gems, like the great Warner Brothers classic Hare-Raising Hare (top two images), the beautifully subtle lighting of the Sorcerer’s Apprentice sequence from Disney’s Fantasia (above, third down) and the enchanted forest from Disney’s Sleeping Beauty (4th down, designed by Eyvind Earle). 
There are also backgrounds from more recent films, like Disney’s Atlantis, The Lost Empire (5th down) and Dreamworks’ The Prince of Egypt (bottom).
You can browse through the pages using the “Older Posts” link at the bottom of each page, or jump to individual topics using the links in the right side bar.
Either way, there is enough here to classify as a delightful time sink, and Richards seems to be adding posts on a regular basis.
[Via Cartoon Brew]


Link: http://animationbackgrounds.blogspot.com

Posted in:  Animation,Concept & Visual Dev.   |   2 Comments »


Wednesday, May 26, 2010
François Baranger

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:10 pm 
 


François Baranger is a French concept artist, illustrator and comics artist. He has done concept design for both gaming and film, and his film credits include Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, parts I and II, and Prince of Persia, though you won’t yet find art from those films in his online portfolio, as they are still under a non-disclosure agreement.
You will find art for Arthur and the Invisibles, a new film by Luc Besson, director of The Fifth Element, and Ek-Tor an interesting but cancelled project, also by Besson. 
There are also galleries of Baranger’s work for other film and game projects, as well as fantasy  and junior books illustration, and comics.
Baranger uses both digital and traditional media, along with some 3-D rendering. His concept work appears largely like digital painting, in which he maintains a nice feeling of a painterly surface and often utilizes limited, almost monochromatic palettes to great effect.
The pieces of his that I enjoy most are concept illustrations for environments, both interior and exterior, in which he can be very evocative of place.
[Via io9]


Link: www.francois-baranger.com
The City We Built On Top Of Yours (io9)
CGSociety
Pics24h
Concept Ships
PixBait
IMDB movie credits

Posted in:  Comics,Concept & Visual Dev.,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, May 25, 2010
Timur Akhriev

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:57 am 
 


Russian born Timur Akhriev attended middle school and high school at the St. Petersburg Art School. In 1991 he left the politically unstable region near his hometown of Ingushetia, near the border with Chechnya, to join his father, painter Daud Akhriev, in the United States.
He now resides in Chattanooga, Tennessee, where he attended the University of Chattanooga Fine Arts program. From 2005 to 2007 he studied in Florence, Italy, for a year and a half at the Florence Academy of Art. You will find a number of scenes of Florence, particularly some wonderful depictions of the characteristic Florentine tile roofs, among the pieces in the galleries where he is represented.
Akhriev has a direct, painterly approach, honed by plein air painting, with a rich variety of textures, vibrant colors and a range of tonal effects. Many of his works are evocations of late afternoon or early evening light, in which foreground objects are often in shadow, and background elements illuminated by shafts of slanting sunlight.
He also frequently depicts landscapes on overcast or foggy days, with subtle color ranges and muted value contrasts. 


Link: Miller Gallery (with bio)
Greenhouse Gallery, and here
Gallery 1401
The Hidden Place
Article by Michael Newberry
Gallery Russia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   8 Comments »


Sunday, May 23, 2010
John Anster Fitzgerald

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:58 pm 
 


Despite his lack of formal art training, Victorian painter John Anster Fitzgerald became accepted by the Royal Academy, exhibited at the British Institution and established himself as  well-known portrait painter and illustrator.
However, “Fairy Fitzgerald” earned his nickname as a “fairy painter”, a popular niche genre in Victorian painting that focused on the depictions of fairies and their otherworldly kin, and the sometimes escapist and imaginative settings evoked by the literature from which the ideas are derived. 
One might imagine that this was in some ways the Victorian equivalent of the appeal of contemporary fantasy art, which has revisited related themes with regularity.
Fitzgerald’s take on the subject, though whimsical in some respects, was often darker than that of his contemporaries, with influences from Bosch and Brueghel raising their twisted little heads amidst the flowers and moss of the forest floor.
In some ways, this is an appropriate undercurrent for the subject, given the often dark and grisly nature of many of the original fairy tales and folklore that were the basis for the motifs. 
Fitzgerald utilized brilliant color, strong value contrasts and richly textural detail to give his work a visual appeal much suited to his subjects and the appetites of his audience.
His work experienced a revival in the 20th Century, to the point where forgers were discovered to be creating numerous fake Fitzgeralds.


Link: Art Magick
Museum Syndicate
ARC
Tate Collection
Leichester Galleries
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
Athenaeum
Victorian Web
Webshots
Cecil Higgins Gallery
Illusions Gallery
Bio on Wikipedia
Artcyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   8 Comments »


Friday, May 21, 2010
Robert Fawcett

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:06 pm 
 


American illustrator Robert Fawcett was a master of expressive texture, controlled color, dramatic value, strong composition and, above all, superb draftsmanship. 
Fawcett was active in the early middle of the 20th Century, a time when the role of photography, and the shifts in fine art, were dramatically changing the look and feel of illustration. 
Like many of his contemporaries, Fawcett de-emphasized rendering, focusing instead on the composition as a whole, the drama of the scene in relation to the page on which it was printed and the surrounding or incorporated type, and the visual appeal of passages of intense texture against more open areas. 
He did not, however, abandon the fundamentals of draftsmanship and expressive drawing that carried forward from the traditions of the Golden Age illustrators and the 19th Century academic art from which they evolved.
Fawcett’s use of subdued color may have had something to do with the fact that he had a form of color blindness (often relying on his wife’s guidance in the application of color), but it was also from his emphasis on a solid foundation of value as the basis for a composition.
Even Fawcett’s more highly rendered illustrations contain an overt element of drawing, with linework evident in the architectural backgrounds if not in the figures. Many pieces have a feeling of painted drawings, and were in fact done that way.
He had an interest in art form an early age. Encouraged by his father, who was an amateur artist, he was apprenticed to an engraver, and spent most of his earnings buying magazines to study the illustrations. Fawcett was born in London, moved to Canada with his family and then to New York. He returned to London to study at the Slade Art School.
He began his career studying to be a gallery artist, but was bitterly put off by what he saw as petty politics, infighting and posturing of the fine art milleu. He decided to devote himself to commercial art, which he saw as more honestly straightforward in its intent.
He had great success creating illustrations for magazines like The Saturday Evening Post, Holiday, Cosmopolitan and numerous advertising clients. His most famous illustrations were a terrific set of 12 Sherlock Holmes illustrations for stories written by Conan Doyle’s nephew Adrian Conan Doyle and John Dickson Carr. The first of these ran in Good Housekeeping, and the others were published in Collier’s Weekly (image above, bottom). In his later career Fwcett devoted himself to documentary style reportage for Look magazine.
He was well respected by his peers, earning the mantle of “The Illustrator’s Illustrator”, which is the subtitle of a much anticipated book from Auad Publishing, Robert Fawcett: The Illustrator’s Illustrator, that is currently in production.
Fawcett himself wrote a well regarded book, On the Art of Drawing, which is still in print from Dover books.
Fawcett was one of the original group of illustrators, along with artists like Austin Briggs, Al Parker, Norman Rockwell and others, brought together by Albert Dorne to form the Famous Artists School.
I haven’t found a specific site dedicated to Fawcett’s work, but Leif Peng has come through again (as he so often does) with a terrific Flickr set (note that there are multiple pages of thumbnails), as well as a brief article on his blog, Today’s Inspiration. 
Lori Lovecraft has a page devoted to Fawcett’s Sherlock Holmes Illustrations.
Gallery Nucleus, in Alhambra, California is hosting a Robert Fawcett Solo Exhibition, the opening for which is tomorrow, May 22, 2010, (though they haven’t yet posted pieces from the show). The exhibition runs until June 14, 2010.


Link: Flickr set from Leif Peng
Article and images from Norman Adams
Fawcett's Sherlock Holmes Illustrations from Lori Lovecraft
Auad Publshing, upcoming monograph, with bio
Robert Fawcett Solo Exhibition, Gallery Nucleus, 5/22/10 - 6/14/10
AskArt
ArtNet
Post from Tim Sale
Bio on Illustration House
Bio on Wikipedia

Posted in:  Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, May 20, 2010
MicroVisions 5 auction

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:07 am 
 


MicroVisions is a yearly auction of small (5×7″, 12x17cm) paintings by noted science fiction and fantasy artists, arranged by Irene Gallo and Dan Dos Santos, the proceeds of which go to the Society of Illustrators student scholarship fund.
This year’s participating artists include Scott Altmann, Scott Bakal, Rick Berry, Bill Carman, Jon Foster, Donato Giancola, Michael Kaluta, Tim O’Brien, Omar Rayyan, Allen Williams, and Boris Vallejo (links to my posts on the artists).
The auction is now live on eBay and runs until next Wednesday, May 26, 2010.
(Images above: Michael Kaluta, Bill Carman, Donato Giancola, Allen Williams)
[Thanks to Bill Carman for the heads-up.]


Link: MicroVisions 5 auction on eBay (to May 26, 2010
Article on The Art Department
My post on last year's MicroVisions 4, and here

Posted in:  Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   1 Comment »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






