The legend of Isaac Brock: Was Waco man the oldest person who ever lived? | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Monday, September 12, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Waco News																		   » 
							Waco history: Brazos Past 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS








Please enable JavaScript to view this site



The legend of Isaac Brock: Was Waco man the oldest person who ever lived?
By Terri Jo Ryan Special to the Tribune-Herald
Saturday February 6, 2010

  









   Email
   Print
  




		 
	

		 
	

When Isaac Brock, of China Spring, shuffled off this mortal coil more than a century ago, one thing was certain — his date of death: Sept. 3, 1909.
It’s his alleged date of birth that gives folks pause; if it was true, it made him one of the oldest people to have ever lived. According to some of his descendants who have tried to nail down the claim, Isaac Brock, the “Walking Man,” was 122 years and 184 days old when he strolled into eternity.
That audacious claim would have him besting the world’s oldest verifiable human life (Jeanne Calment of France, who died on Aug. 4,  1977,  at 122 years and 164 days). Heck, it puts him in league with biblical patriarchs.
A thoroughly weathered tombstone with faded lettering in the China Spring Cemetery hints at the curious tale:
“AT REST: Isaac Brock. Born March 1, 1787.  Died September 3, 1909.
Aged 122 years, 6 months and  2 days.
He died as he lived — a Christian.”
Conflicting life stories
So many newspaper clippings and contemporary accounts of the old man’s life contain so many discrepancies, it’s difficult to gauge what really took place during his many decades.
Some accounts had him a fearsome teenage hunter, responsible for feeding his entire Tar Heel mountain community with game. Some accounts say he came to Texas before the 1836 war for independence from Mexico. Still other tales say he made it to Waco by the 1850s to operate a blacksmith shop near the old ferry that later was replaced by the Waco Suspension Bridge.
The short version of his story is that as a young man, he went to Georgia to work in the gold mines, and after several years went to DeKalb County, Ala., to apprentice himself to the blacksmithing trade, later opening his own establishment.
About 1837, he married wife  No. 1, Lucinda Carolina Hill (some records say Hall) of Alabama, who bore him four children before she died in 1849.  Isaac married within four years, on Sept. 30, 1852, in Rusk County, Texas, to Sarah Jane Sparks, an Alabama woman age 19. They had 12 more children before her death in 1907 at age 74.
Tales of Confederate service
Roger Conger, Waco historian of the mid-20th century, wrote that about 1858, Isaac Brock moved back to East Texas  and in the 1860s tried to enlist in the Confederate Army as a blacksmith.
Various sources say either that he was turned down for being too old or that he was accepted at last when he agreed to take the place of another man. Still other contemporary newspaper accounts say Isaac was pressed into service and that “in his heart he was a Union man.”
What is definitely known is that after the Civil War, he appeared in McLennan County and settled on the north side of the North Bosque River.
One of his many children, Sallie Brock Ballard, recalled the long trek from Smith County to Waco in 1872. She also remembered how her scrappy pappy made his own furniture, shod horses into his 90s and walked the 35-mile round trip from his China Spring home into town just two years before Brock died from “a sudden attack of old age,” as one reporter put it.
Indeed, some accounts said he died in the home of a daughter, Mrs. Ed Drahn, while others contend he died in the county poor house.
According to the Waco Semi-Weekly Tribune of Sept.  8, 1909, the blind and feeble Brock has been ejected from his home of many years in China Spring by his kin who contended  that Isaac “was off his mental balance, was fretful and inclined to be fractious and liable to hurt somebody.” At his “lunacy trial,” as such legal proceedings were known in the day, Judge John W. Davis defended the old man before County Judge McCullough, who  ordered him to be admitted to the county poor house on the county farm east of the river. Superintendent John S. Moore told the paper, “ He died easy, like a baby going to sleep. There was no pain, no struggle, not a word. The candle of life had burned to its limit.”
“So much has been printed about Isaac Brock, his alleged great age, his adventurous and ever romantic life (much of it pure invention) that it might have been supposed that even though a poor man, as to this world’s goods, he would have been laid to rest with more of pretentiousness,” read the Waco Semi-Weekly Tribune.
Annette Foster Ditto, married to Brock descendant Stephen Wayne Ditto, said that she thinks Brock was likely born around 1805. It was his father, David — who married a first cousin, Eunice — who was born around 1788 in Anderson County, S.C., she said. The Isaac who was born in 1787 in Buncombe Co., N.C. was actually Eunice’s brother, she said.
Census records 
Indeed, according to the 1880 U.S. Census, Isaac Brock of McLennan County, Texas, was a 75-year-old farmer (not a 93-year-old one).  He was listed as a 48-year-old blacksmith in the 1860 federal census, when he was a resident of Rusk County. His enlistment papers as a private with Company H, 19th Texas Infantry in 1862 list his age as 53. Of course, he told one newspaperman that he gave officials the wrong age so he could get in.
Annette  Ditto added that she believes several of Brock’s line still live in the greater Waco area.   
However, another descendant, named Carolyn Brock Fetherlin, said that after years of skepticism about Brock’s age, she’s come around again to being a true believer.
Fetherlin’s father, George Brock, was the first son of Lafayette America Brock, who was the second son of Isaac Brock and Sarah Jane Sparks.
“I really can’t prove either (birthdate),” she said, “I have more things saying he was that old than the other way.”
Just a big joke?
Carolyn Ballinger reported on the Brock family genealogical forum that: “Isaac ‘Texas’ Brock, as he is called, was a man who liked to ‘pull one’s leg’ and gave the (birth) date of his uncle  as a jest — you have to know the Brock men to understand what I am saying. The reporter who put all the misinformation in the paper didn’t check his facts very well. Dear ol’ Isaac also told people he was once a Texas Ranger, served in the Mexican-American War, etc. And if you check you find that none of it is true.”
The controversy brings to mind the 1962 film The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance. When the newspaperman learns the “truth” about the infamous deed of the title, his response was: “This is the West, sir. When the legend becomes fact, print the legend.”
Sources: Ancestry.com, FamilyTreeMaker.genealogy.com; USGWarchives.net; Roger Conger: A PICTORIAL HISTORY OF WACO (1964); WACO Semi-Weekly Tribune (Jan. 15, 1908); WACO Tribune-Herald, Jan. 9, 1971.)
tjryan@wacotrib.com
757-5746




  









   Email
   Print
  




			 
		


				MORE IN WACO HISTORY: BRAZOS PAST »


















 
More




 
Waco History Project
Stories, photos and more — all about Waco history.
 
 
 







 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 





 
New issue!


Check out the September  issue
Link: View the magazine as virtual flipbook

 










Most Read





Most Read |
				Most Emailed |
				Most Commented







Baylor, 5 other Big 12 schools could threaten legal action as SEC invites Texas A&M
Texas Lottery results for Sept. 7, 2011
Deadly wildfires claim more than 1,000 Texas homes
Baylor throws a block to stop Texas A&M leaving Big 12
Transgendered Baylor grad to return to Waco for event
Bruceville-Eddy man gets 45 years for killing grandfather













 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 







 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




