Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12? | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Sunday, September 11, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Blogs																		   » 
							Staff Blogs																		   » 
							IMO 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS






IMO


The Trib's place to talk.If you use an RSS reader, here is the feed for IMO:  RSS feed





What do you think about continued assaults on the Big 12 conference and Texas A&M's potential to leave?
Aug 15, 2011 2:37PM

»
23  Comments 


Is the prolonged heat affecting your mood?
Aug 09, 2011 12:39PM

»
8  Comments 


Who are the winners and losers in the U.S. debt debate?
Aug 02, 2011 2:55PM

»
8  Comments 


How do you feel about the new federal requirement that insurances provide birth control with no copay?
Aug 01, 2011 2:55PM

»
10  Comments 


Do you care to know when and where Casey Anthony turns up?
Jul 20, 2011 4:00PM

»
17  Comments 




»
More Entries






Wednesday September 07, 2011

POST YOUR COMMENTS


					 
				


Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?
UPDATE, 3:55 P.M.:
Baylor is among six Big 12 schools that will not sign a waiver to  allow Texas A&M to go to the Southeastern Conference following a  meeting of the Big 12 presidents Wednesday afternoon, a source close to  Baylor told the Tribune-Herald.
The other schools were Kansas, Kansas State, Texas Tech, Iowa State and Missouri.
If Oklahoma reaffirms its commitment to the Big 12, the schools are  expected to sign the waiver that would allow the Aggies to go to the SEC  without any legal action. The Sooners, who are reportedly considering a  move to the Pac-12, are expected to make their decision within the next  two weeks.
— Tribune-Herald staff
What do you think of this news and the potential for Baylor or other schools to sue or at least block A&M's departure from the Big 12 by threatening to sue?



					 
				



41  Comments  
					| Post a comment


				  









   Email
   Print
  


				

					 
				




			 
		



		 
	


 


 

	 




 J  
Sep. 09, 2011, 8:37AM

					(Report Comment)
					












I'm not particulary in favor of a law suit, but Baylor is correct to not waive the rights for legal action until all the dust settles.  For those critical of Baylor, how many events in Amarillo or Wichita Falls or Tyler or Abilene do you ever see on national television?  Waco is viewed often due to Baylor sporting events.  I believe that Baylor is third in Big-12 championships. No, not in football but other sports shouldn't be ignored or belittled. Waco would be virtually nothing without Baylor.  And for those who believe Ann Richards got Baylor into the Big-12, it was actually Bob Bullock (Texas Tech and BU grad) who was the powerful Texas lt. governor who was able to get his 2 schools in.  Baylor did not initiate the SWC breakup but supported the SWC to the bitter end.  Grant Teaff and his players chanted 'SWC ... SWC ... SWC' after their 1992 Sun Bowl victory over Arizona. Does anyone believe that TCU would have turned down a Big-12 offer in support of Baylor if TCU had been offered?  TCU did not have as successful a football program then as now.  In fact, not being in the Big-12 probably benefitted TCU in the long run.




			 
		




 Kyle  
Sep. 08, 2011, 8:32PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I never realized just how dumb Baylor fans were until I saw these posts. Thank you




			 
		




 Big Ron  
Sep. 08, 2011, 7:47PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I'm reserving judgement on A&M until I talk to Coach Kim Mulkey.




			 
		




 major oglethorpe  
Sep. 08, 2011, 7:45PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor - get off the welfare teet. Be thankful for the free ride you've had for the had for the past 15 years. Baylor has been nothing to the BigXII except but a wefare receipient.




			 
		




 Mustang Guy  
Sep. 08, 2011, 7:43PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Well BU Fan, I was amsued at the LTTE the other day from the Aggie Lady that admittedly said she knew nothing about football. She did say however that they did not "hate" Baylor but they did "hate" UT. Typical Aggie. I guess what she doesn't understand is that not everyone likes Baylor, but we all dislike Aggies! Just let 'em go. 110+ years of tradition down the toliet. SWOOOSH!




			 
		




 BU fan  
Sep. 08, 2011, 4:31PM

					(Report Comment)
					












It is a shame that Waco folks are dissing BU, their home team! They are trying to look out for their best interest as are the other schools. Beebe needs to be sent out on a rail, IMO. He isn't doing anything constructive other that letting the Horns rule the roost. A&M is being two-faced, as they previously had agreed to be loyal to the Big 12. Can't stand A/M,they are a cultist bunch in CS....hope the SEC gives them the beating they deserve! Let the jerks leave, and get 3 more schools in (BYU, Boise, and Houston) or maybe Notre Dame...the Catholics & Mormons vs the Baptists.  A/M's cult relgion don't belong here in TX anyway...buh bye!!




			 
		




 Garrett  
Sep. 08, 2011, 11:34AM

					(Report Comment)
					












It hardly seems likely that Baylor's standing up for its legitimate right, in this instance, can lead to a positive result.  However, those from TAMU who cry foul because their pathway may be impeded are guilty of seeing their desire as more "right" than those who will be negatively affected.  It is a typical blindness by the one who holds the upper hand.




			 
		




 C  
Sep. 08, 2011, 10:31AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Yes.  A&M signed a contract, and contracts are made to ensure stability. Why should Baylor and other Big 12 members have to pay the costs they incurred in reliance on that contract?  A&M's hurt feelings over the Longhorn Network are not a good enough reason.




			 
		




 Russell  
Sep. 08, 2011, 10:00AM

					(Report Comment)
					












tu will do whatever the heck tu wants to do, and all others be damned. OU will do pretty much what tu dictates. OSU and Tech will ride the coattails of the first two. A&M decides to protect their own interests, and now they are the bad guy? It's unfortunate that college sports has become all about the Benjamins, but it is what it is. Unfortunately for Baylor, the Waco television market is not much to bring to the table. But instead of dragging down the Aggies, they should probably kiss and make up with SMU, TCU, UH and Rice, and keep K-State, KU, ISU and Mizzou and form their own conference. Kent Hance should keep his mouth shut, let the Aggies go to the SEC. By instigating this legal fiasco, Baylor, et al are just delaying the inevitable --- tu will do what tu wants and either go west or go independent and their sycophants will follow, the Big 12 will still die a slow agonizing death, and Baylor, et al will be right back where they are today, and only the lawyers win.




			 
		




 Dan  
Sep. 08, 2011, 9:42AM

					(Report Comment)
					












As I have suggested before, Baylor needs to get together with similar private universities and form the Ivy League of the South. The new conference should have BU, SMU, TCU, Rice, Tulane, Vanderbilt, Duke, and Wake Forest.




			 
		




 dafg  
Sep. 08, 2011, 9:32AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is only doing this for what money they can get and they will get some.  Basides its all about money in college FB.  Neb and Col moved because of the money. Texas did the tv deal for the money.  Ags are going to sec for the money.  And the good Baylor line is in the Big 12 for the money.  If they had been in the WAC or conference USA they would have been a powerhouse on the field. Its the money Supid!




			 
		




 Allen  
Sep. 08, 2011, 8:25AM

					(Report Comment)
					












All this action has done is to reinforce the anti-Waco/anti-Baylor rhetoric that former residents try to frequently combat. As beneficiaries of the Waco experience, we espouse the positive qualities of Waco and convey those through our social/business networks.

Last year, Baylor administration was noticeably silent as the conference realignment discussion arose early in the year. Though not public, there was plenty of forewarning through sports media and commercial team blog sites. It was at the peak of discussions, leaders realized they were seriously overdue in the ongoing decision processes forcing Ken Starr to scramble, negotiating an uncertain membership and appreciative acceptance of a revenue package far less than those enjoyed by the chief member institutions in the conference.  Baylor did not drive its continued membership in the Big 12, it was unfortunately carried along.

The potential economic impact of Baylor's exclusion in a major conference and the impact for Waco have been obvious for a long time. Every business has to manage risk and deal with it effectively. But this scenario never surfaced because due to the derisive effects such a public relations gaffe would cause. Coupled with that, such a decision would only exemplify the negative perception many have of the city and university.  Instead of preserving a regional perception, you have successfully extended it to a national audience.




			 
		




 El Diablo  
Sep. 08, 2011, 6:51AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Who is surprised that Kenneth Starr would pull some legal maneuver to get what he wants? It makes Baylor look pathetic.




			 
		




 David  
Sep. 08, 2011, 6:33AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Ahh...Baylor, the school that only got into the Big XII because Ann Richards held the conference hostage until they took her alma mater instead of TCU. Now they have the gall to be upset about being left behind when the Big XII falls apart?




			 
		




 MG  
Sep. 08, 2011, 2:30AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Texas A&M could have gone in with Texas and given us the Big 12 Network.  Instead, they didn't and we have the Longhorn Network.  Screw Texas A&M.




			 
		




 MG  
Sep. 08, 2011, 2:28AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Texas A&M claims they have "been in the shadows of Texas, Oklahoma and Oklahoma State" for years.  Now, they claim they want more exposure.  And they think that leaving the Big 12 for the SEC is going to do that?  Instead of being in the shadows of Texas, Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, they are willing to be in the shadows of Alabama, Auburn, LSU, Vanderbilt, and the rest of the SEC?  Really?  If anything, the Big 12 should look into bringing back the Southwest Conference and be their own powerhouse.  the SEC has won the last 5 BCS National Championships.  Texas A&M isn't going to win it that easily.  The SEC is going to move in on Texas recruiting and pulling talent from Texas elsewhere.  Bottom line, Texas A&M isn't going to get the exposure they want just because they're Texas A&M.  Let them go, bring in SMU, try to get TCU and another powerhouse, say Boise State, and bring back the SWC!




			 
		




 DAY  
Sep. 07, 2011, 11:35PM

					(Report Comment)
					












What ridiculous and whiny behavior on the part of A&M because Texas has its own TV network! Its time to let the cry baby sheep herders go to the SEC! It will bring me and others around the country joy to see them get their butt handed to them in football every year by Florida, Alabama, Auburn, ect and dwell at the bottom of the SEC each year. 

As for Texas and Oklahoma longing to join us in the PAC-12 there is one little rule we have in revenue sharing the last place PAC-12 team gets the same share as the First place team. I don't think either of these schools can live with that!




			 
		




 William Redd  
Sep. 07, 2011, 11:27PM

					(Report Comment)
					












If Baylor is able to force A&M to stay, or the rest of the members to stay without them, we can't even imagine the hostility and possibile litigation this will create between the universities and fans in this conference.  Baylor officials need to find a more appropriate group to join their athletics to, than the much larger state universities.




			 
		




 kyle  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:57PM

					(Report Comment)
					












SA Dave, what are you talking about? Please tell us how A&M is being a bully? What is A&M guilty of? Are you saying A&M is a bully just because its changing conferences? Baylor did the exact same thing in the 90's to TCU, Houston, SMU and Rice but they didn't sue Baylor. Schools change conferences all the time and what Baylor is trying to do makes them the joke. Your comment about leave the checkbook behind sums it up. Baylor reminds me of the people who expect free handouts in life who give nothing to society in return. Why doesn't Baylor make their own money! Its sad




			 
		




 SA-DAVE  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:56PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Hey Aggies, our judicial system takes a dim view narcissistic bullies like you. Look up tortious interference in something other than your copy of "How to draw your sword on an SMU cheerleader".  You're guilty and you know it.  Good luck in the SEC...dont forget to leave your checkbook behind.




			 
		




 Samantha  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:45PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I guess if I was starring down a future with the WAC, I would sue too.  Better to be a bent over hypocrite, than broke I guess.  Weak move Baylor.




			 
		




 Lufkin  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:45PM

					(Report Comment)
					












With Baylor having a 18–101 record in the Big 12, on what grounds are they going to sue.  I think other schools & A&M will sue Baylor for loss of revenue due to their being such a weak opponent.




			 
		




 Aggie Dave  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:22PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Why does no one see that this is all happening because Dan Beebe is a weak moron who is nothing more than a t.u. puppet?  I don't get it.  The guy is a two-faced squirrel.  Placing the blame on A&M is misguided.  A&M's administration simply took a stand when it was obvious that Beebe would do nothing about Deloss Dodds and Texas running roughshod over the other members of the conference and, from all accounts, telling everyone that it was going to do whatever it wanted regardless of others objections.  These other schools who sat back and prayed that they could stay latched onto t.u. in perpetuity look pathetic now, especially Baylor.  They look pathetic because they were simply going to lie back and take it.  A&M called em on it and said enough is enough.  Way to go Dr. Loftin!  I dont guess we'll be expecting you and Kenneth Starr to be shaking hands and chit chatting on the field before the game this year.




			 
		




 Dale  
Sep. 07, 2011, 8:37PM

					(Report Comment)
					












The only school that is going to be left with egg on their face on this one is Baylor. Baylor may not be solely responsible for keeping Waco small, but they sure played a big part in it. They are trying to pull the same stunt with the Big 12. I suspect the Big 8 was about to break apart when someone wanted to bring in the state schools from the collapsed SWC. Everyone knows that a lot of "politics" were involved to get Baylor in the Big 12. They need to let it go and stand on their own for a change.




			 
		




 danH  
Sep. 07, 2011, 8:14PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Hey Baylor, try to stand up on your own 2 feed, kick the training wheels, let go of your T-Sip Mama's hand...




			 
		




 Mike  
Sep. 07, 2011, 8:08PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Personally I hate to see the big twelve break up but my joy will return after I see tam get the wheels beat off of them weekend and week out...you will need that extra money you get from the sec for that self esteem transplant.




			 
		




 Brian MIller  
Sep. 07, 2011, 7:24PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Ridiculous and whiny behavior on the part of Baylor.




			 
		




 JD  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:13PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Guess Baylor isn't concerned with their Christian witness: " let your yes be yes and your no be no". When Baylor was birthed in 1845 getting a football payoff or child-support from successful schools was not in the vision or plan. Now it has become central. Lawsuits to cover covetous ambitions? Sad Deal! Especially since for many years, faithful Baptists supported that initial vision only to see it perish under this latest one. How can one sue the SEC or A&M after they carefully followed the prescribed process and try to steal Arkansas from the SEC at the same time???




			 
		




 SK  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:09PM

					(Report Comment)
					












No.  If OU is who you want to stay, sue them you morons!  Furthermore, Baylor should step down to a smaller conference and rebuild it's program.  It worked for TCU.  At 18-101, Baylor should pay the conference for lost TV revenue.  BU, an anchor on the conference before and and anghor on progress now.




			 
		




 alice  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:03PM

					(Report Comment)
					












The Big 12 started crumbling last year.  It was not A&M that caused the demise of the conference and Baylor is just going to drag out this process and create more drama by threatening legal action.  It is pathetic and reminds me of the left out child that is tattling to their parents because no one wants to play with them.  I wish they would focus on building a better team and more fan support instead of tearing others down.




			 
		




 Sherilyn Adams  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:48PM

					(Report Comment)
					












No, why should baylor blame only A&M for the big 12 split? This started last year when TX was ready to move to the Pac12, taking A&M, and others with them, not taking Baylor though.  If anything, the Aggies saved the big 12 for one year by standing up to tu and not going to Pac12. So if Baylor wants to sue someone, try suing tu since they started the whole mess last summer. A&M would never have even thought of moving had it not been for the things that went on with Pac12 last summer. Aggies talked to SEC after tu were so close to joining the pac 12...the network was the last straw...they didnt want to live in an unequal conference with tsips unfair recruiting brought on by the network.  Baylor has a very short memory if they can't remember these events.  Aggie fans are not all pleased about changes, but we are ready for some fairness in revenue that we have not had with t-sips.  Also, Aggies will be fine in the SEC...we may lose football, but we have four national championship teams, and others ranked in top 10 in other sports!




			 
		




 david ford  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:04PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Why not?  The Aggie move (as well as others considering doing so) would be a crippling blow to Baylor.  Baylor ends up holding the short end of any stick in this scenario.  They operate under a valid "contract" with these other guzillion dollars schools.  BU would suffer the most dire consequences of all of them from a Big XII demise.  They should pursue any legal course of action available to them to either rectify the situation or at least derive substantial dollar coverage for the catastrophic losses this will force.
David (and others), your anti-Baylor prejudice is a bit too obvious.  You are certainly not alone BUT that is no justification for the childish/greedy moves going on.  Sports?  You must be kidding!!!  It's all about THE MONEY = GREED.




			 
		




 Madcougar  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:34PM

					(Report Comment)
					












It's time to stop feeding off of A&M/Texas' teet Baylor.




			 
		




 JG  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:04PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Thanks for standing up on this one Bears!  Tie up the whole realignment craziness until cooler heads can prevail.




			 
		




 Clay  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:56PM

					(Report Comment)
					












SHAME on Baylor!!!  You should truely be ashamed.  Let A&M go and fend for yourself instead of suing to keep someone in.  No wonder you're one of the most expensive schools in the state--too many high paid lawyers.  SHAME on YOU!!!




			 
		




 Barry Dickens  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:47PM

					(Report Comment)
					












typical bailor.  Suing A&M should make for a very entertaining football game this year at A&M.




			 
		




 Curt  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:19PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Since joining the Big 12 conference in 1996, Baylor has held a 18–101 record in regular season football play.  Yea, you beat TCU; good for you.  But with a threatened lawsuit against A&M, the Bears are quickly turning into the little yappy dog they annoys everyone and doesn't get much attention.  If Baylor's record was better, maybe someone would see the move as legitimate.




			 
		




 keith henry  
Sep. 07, 2011, 2:44PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Sue the aggies and anyone else who leaves.  If we are going to be left without a conference get all we can.  Hope the Aggies enjoy the sec and the losing that will take place




			 
		




 BA81  
Sep. 07, 2011, 2:32PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Amazing that Baylor is so two-faced.  They didn't blink when given the opportunity to leave TCU, SMU, UH, and Rice on the outside looking in when at least two of those teams were more deserving. And they just cut off their nose to spite their face - the Aggies will still leave and no conference will touch Baylor with a 10 foot pole after this stupid move.




			 
		




 David  
Sep. 07, 2011, 2:32PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor should not be in the Big 12 to start with. Ann Richards blackmailed the other schools when the Big 12 was formed, telling them they could not jump from the SWC if Baylor wasn't included. The Big 12 wanted TCU, not Baylor, but the threat of legal action put a gun to everyone's head. 

Baylor is just getting what it richly deserves, a one-way ticket to Conference USA, so it can get its whippings from Houston, Rice and SMU. The Bears are a fraud and always have been. Good riddance, Baylor.




			 
		




 BC  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:32PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is upset because everyone else in the conference has at least one BCS offer on the table. Texas and Oklahoma can choose where they want to go and OSU is a package deal for whoever takes the Sooners. Tech is rumored Pac 12 and Missouri has hopes of the Big Ten or SEC. Kansas hopes on the Big Ten as well, but along with Missouri, K-State and Iowa St......they all have standing invitations to join the Big East whenever the Big 12 eventually falls. Baylor is the only one rattling their sword because they are the only one who will be left BCS homeless.




			 
		



	 






 
 





Name: (required) 

Email: (required) 



Comments: 















	 












 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 
Blogs





 

Joe Science
Waco back in triple digits

 
 
 
 
Sound & Sight
Friday amusement: The Build-Your-Own-Bear Conference

 
 
 
 
High School Sports
Bonus football notes: Tidbits about Central Texas teams
Podcast: This week's football preview

 
 
 
 
The Bear Blog
Podcast: Talking TCU (RG3 for Heisman?), Big 12 future and more

 
 
 

Music Notes
Holly Tucker Releases New CD After Winning Prestigious Statewide Music Competition

 
 
 
 
Waco Politics Report
Jim Dunnam talks to Bryan-College Station Democrats

 
 
 
 
Mike's Marketplace
C3/Customer Contact Channels still seeking job applicants

 
 
 
 
Wendy Does Waco
Trying to pick up the pace

 
 
 

Order Up!
More frozen yogurt headed to Waco

 
 
 
 
 
More blogs
Voices around the community.
• All blogs
 
 








 





 
New issue!


Check out the September  issue
Link: View the magazine as virtual flipbook

 







 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 







 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 







 





 

 



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




