UFC 141 Fight Card: Brock Lesnar Vs. Alistair Overeem Set As Main Event




thingstodoinbostonthisweekend.com things to do in boston this weekend



Follow me on TwitterRSS Feeds

Home
hotels in boston
cheap hotels in boston
Privacy Policy















« Wildfire burns near Magnolia
Utilities of Rain Boots »



UFC 141 Fight Card: Brock Lesnar Vs. Alistair Overeem Set As Main Event









Lance Pugmire at the L.A. Times is reporting former UFC heavyweight champion Brock Lesnar will return to action after a second bout with diverticulitis against former Strikeforce heavyweight champion Alistair Overeem. The bout will be a five-round main event on December 30th at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada.
According to the report, the Strikeforce title is not on the line. in addition, the winner of this bout will face the winner of the Cain Velasquez vs. Junior dos Santos.
Overeem told the L.A. Times:
“Brock is a big name, a dangerous guy, and this is a dream matchup,” Overeem told The Times on Tuesday, just after signing a standard UFC fight contract in the office of Chairman Lorenzo Fertitta. “Brock’s a big guy, an exciting wrestler with his takedowns.
“I want to see this fight myself. overall, I’m a different fighter. A striker, athletic, big. These are going to be two big trucks going at it on a collision course.”
UFC management expressed their enthusiasm for the bout:
“This is the fight the fans want,” UFC President Dana White said. “Both of these guys are monsters. Can Lesnar take Overeem down?”
“Our thinking when we bought Strikeforce was to give fans the fights they want,” Fertitta said. “Obviously, Alistair’s one of the best heavyweights in the world, but he also has that ‘it’ factor — the tremendous look, he’s huge. It’s a star factor.”
No further information was available on the terms of Overeem’s agreement with the UFC.
Notably, this is not part of the UFC’s tradition of Saturday night fights as December 30th is a Friday.
More on this story as it develops.
UFC 141 Fight Card: Brock Lesnar Vs. Alistair Overeem Set As Main Event








Technorati Tags: Alistair, Dana White, Dangerous Guy, dream matchup, Fight Card, Grand Garden Arena, l a times, Las Vegas, Lorenzo Fertitta, Main Event, Mgm Grand Garden, monsters, nbsp, Pugmire, Standard Ufc, Takedowns, Trucks, Ufc Fight, Ufc Heavyweight Champion, Vegas Nevada



Alistair, Dana White, Dangerous Guy, dream matchup, Fight Card, Grand Garden Arena, l a times, Las Vegas, Lorenzo Fertitta, Main Event, Mgm Grand Garden, monsters, nbsp, Pugmire, Standard Ufc, Takedowns, Trucks, Ufc Fight, Ufc Heavyweight Champion, Vegas Nevada 




 

Share this post!

Twitter
Digg
Facebook
Delicious
StumbleUpon
Google Bookmarks
LinkedIn
Yahoo Bookmarks
Technorati Favorites



 Print article  
              This entry was posted by editor on September 7, 2011 at 8:00 pm, and is filed under content. Follow any responses to this post through RSS 2.0. You can leave a response or trackback from your own site.            







Related Posts Comments (0) 






No comments yet.






















 













No trackbacks yet.






 Maine Vs. Pitt: Panthers Get Final Tune-Up Before Iowa Game
about 1 day ago - No comments
By Anson Whaley – Contributor Todd Graham knows the Panthers have plenty to work on in game against the Black Bears. Sep 9, 2011 – After defeating the Buffalo Bulls last week, Pitt will look to tighten things up a bit this weekend in a contest against the Maine Black Bears. As an FCS team





What do you think of Former UFC World Heavyweight Champion Brock Lesnar being on the Ultimate Fighter?
about 5 days ago - No comments
UFC President Dana White announcied yesterday that Brock Lesnar would be one of the coaches on the upcoming season of the Ultimate Fighter. I can only hope that they bring in real coaches for his team so they have a fair shake in the competition, he doesn't have enough experience to do the job but





UFC: Brock Lesnar vs. Alistair Overeem set for Dec. 30
about 5 days ago - No comments
Lesnar has been out of action since losing his UFC heavyweight belt to Cain Velasquez in October at Anaheim's Honda Center, suffering a return episode of the intestinal ailment diverticulitis. The Dec. 30 winner will be first in line to fight the winner of a Nov. 12 fight between Velasquez and Junior Dos Santos. "this





Inappropriate Flag
about 1 week ago - No comments
How dare MDA kick Jerry Lewis off as the host and Chairman after all he has done and the BILLIONS of dollars he has helped collect.  Did they forget it has always been about “JERRY’S KIDS”.  I have collected for MDA and donated myself for 40 years and I feel like they are putting us





Alabama A&M: Chicago Classic is homecoming of sorts for Jackson
about 1 week ago - No comments
? HUNTSVILLE, Alabama - Tony Jackson thought his football career was over. After Alabama A&M completed spring practice, Jackson, who has longed for a career in acting, received a call about becoming an extra in “Good Deeds,” one of Tyler Perry’s upcoming movies also starring Gabrielle Union. “I jumped all over it and decided I was





 Karl Malone Jr. Creating His Own Legacy
about 1 week ago - No comments
What you fans have to remember, KJ is only a junior in high school. he will continue to grow and gain muscle. he might grow another inch or maybe two, but here is where he stands right now. Broad Jump: ﻿7’1′ Vertical Jump: 23.00′ Teams that have been rumored to be interested in him. Idaho State: I





Kevin Smith’s Red State Debuts on VOD
about 1 week ago - No comments
Normally, movies are first released to the masses via theaters, and no, this does not include the straight-to-DVD fare, either. This is especially true if the movie in question has any amount of buzz to it, something director/actor/writer Kevin Smith is accustomed to. All of Smith’s previous movies, save, perhaps his initial hit, Clerks, have





Audrina Patridge Not Planning Any More Reality Shows, Shoots Down Plastic Surgery Rumors 
    (omg!)  
about 1 week ago - No comments
LOS ANGELES, Calif. — Audrina Patridge is moving on from reality TV. The bikini babe said it appears that her days as the star of the VH1 reality show, “Audrina,” are over. PLAY IT NOW: Audrina Patridge Bringing ‘Tears,’ ‘Joy’ & ‘Boys’ On New Reality Show “No, I don’t think we are,” she told the





 The BEST Boston Tourism Guide
about 1 week ago - No comments
Welcome to Boston Discovery Guide, an independent on-line travel resource packed with Boston tourism essentials, "insider" tips about what to do and see, how to save and where to splurge, and everything else you’ll need to enjoy Boston to the fullest – without feeling like a tourist. If you’re planning a trip to Boston, you





 Next on the Chopping Block: Boston College » College Football Daily News – Get all your football news on one site
about 1 week ago - No comments
Four times this year, and, well, every year, NU plays an out-of-conference opponent. the question arises: who are these guys? Some people only want to know who they are in a football sense, but, to truly understand our opponents on the gridiron, you have to know where they come from, so football strategy can wait.















 

 

 

 




 

Recent CommentsRandom Search Termsnascar trackpass for ipadshirley temple bikinikim kardashians seriasisj p rosenbaumnutri jingle for the theme of breast feedingthe zodiac killerlen soleskyGoogle pop popwarner winter springsCM PUNK NEW PHOTOcody az free show at arizona mills mall 















   Amazon.com Widgets
 










Mystique theme by digitalnature | Powered by WordPress  RSS Feeds XHTML 1.1 Top




















