Bloggers without Borders
 
 

























Home
About Us

Bios
History


Contact
What We Do
How You Can Help
Projects

Current Projects
Completed Projects
Submit a Project Idea


BwoB Blog

News/Updates


FAQs
Media Mentions
 
















 














Texas Wildfire Relief Efforts



Bloggers Without Borders is helping raise awareness of the current relief efforts in Texas. See how you can help.


















What We Do



Bloggers without Borders is a newly established non-profit organization helping connect bloggers to one another, and helping them to assist others in need. Bloggers have long been using their platforms for good, raising money and awareness for causes close to their hearts. They have rallied behind people who have lost their homes or their loved ones, reached out to people who are struggling with illness or experiencing a personal tragedy. Help can be as simple as sending flowers or a check, but bloggers support people in the community and beyond when they need it the most.
Having witnessed the boundless good will of the blogging community, we see the potential for so much more—if we were organized. We have grand designs for Bloggers without Borders. Ultimately we would like to have our own domestic and international projects as well as awareness-raising campaigns.
For now, Bloggers without Borders is an online platform that will spread the word about charitable happenings in the blogging community via our website, blog and social media platforms. It is a central point, a hub, a way to connect bloggers who want to help with bloggers who need it. If you have a project, we want to hear about it. Bloggers without Borders can help promote anything from charity cookbooks and fundraising campaigns, to online bake sales and benefit auctions. We can also provide help and advice on how to start a project.
Bloggers without Borders has been created to do these things:

To create a platform (through our website, blog and social media platforms) which allows bloggers to promote charitable events and projects and connect them with bloggers who want to get involved.
To offer advice and support to bloggers want to start projects.
To respond to the need in our own community (and beyond) by fundraising for specific causes as and when the need arises.
To use our platforms to raise awareness about chosen social issues through targeted campaigns.

We’re working on funding, but what we need most right now is your support. Help us spread the word about what we as a community are doing. Help us build our audience and connect with bloggers who want to use their platform to touch lives. Whether your audience is 5 people or 5 million, we need you! Because our greatest strength lies in our numbers, in our ability to reach people far and wide.
Together we have already achieved great things and we can do so much more. This is only the beginning. We hope you’ll join us for the journey.
Yours for good,
Maggy Keet & Erika Pineda-Ghanny



More



















Completed Project



To create a fund for Jennifer Perillo and her two girls, ages 3 and 8, giving them financial security during a difficult time. Funds may be used for anything from paying bills to putting money into a college fund.



More







































About BwoB 

What exactly is Bloggers without Borders? Find out the story, and who's behind it.









Get Involved! 

There are many ways you can help. Find out how!









Contact Us 

Have an question, idea, or story to share? We'd love to hear from you!








Donate 



If you would like your donation to be applied toward a specific project, please specify the project in the transaction page. Thank you.



 






















								 
							














 




 




"Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page.— bloggerswob 






 
 
 















Pages
#afundforjennie Auction listAbout UsBWOB BadgesContactDine In IreneFAQsHomeHow You Can HelpSubmit a Project IdeaWhat We DoWhy




The Latest



Dine In Irene
   Project Creator: GrowNYC Main Contact Person: Jeanne Hodesh of Greenmarket […]







More

								Thanks for dropping by! Feel free to join the discussion by leaving comments, and stay updated by subscribing to the RSS feed.							





								© 2011 Bloggers without Borders							























