What do you think about continued assaults on the Big 12 conference and Texas A&M's potential to leave? | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Monday, September 12, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Blogs																		   » 
							Staff Blogs																		   » 
							IMO 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS






IMO


The Trib's place to talk.If you use an RSS reader, here is the feed for IMO:  RSS feed





Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?
Sep 07, 2011 10:22AM

»
41  Comments 


Is the prolonged heat affecting your mood?
Aug 09, 2011 12:39PM

»
8  Comments 


Who are the winners and losers in the U.S. debt debate?
Aug 02, 2011 2:55PM

»
8  Comments 


How do you feel about the new federal requirement that insurances provide birth control with no copay?
Aug 01, 2011 2:55PM

»
10  Comments 


Do you care to know when and where Casey Anthony turns up?
Jul 20, 2011 4:00PM

»
17  Comments 




»
More Entries






Monday August 15, 2011

POST YOUR COMMENTS


					 
				


What do you think about continued assaults on the Big 12 conference and Texas A&M's potential to leave?
What do you think about continued assaults on the Big 12 conference and Texas A&M's potential to leave?

From staff and wire reports: Big 12 sources have indicated that Texas A&M will vote to leave  the Big 12 as early as the 2012-13 athletic season. But the school's discussions to move to the Southeastern Conference took a big hit over the weekend when the SEC issued a statement declaring it is satisfied with its current 12-school alignment.
The Texas Legislature was set to hold a hearing Tuesday in the Texas House  Committee on Higher Education on possible realignment, but postponed the hearing Monday after the weekend's developments.
After discussions with other Big 12 schools, Baylor University officials believe if Texas A&M were to leave,  the remaining nine league members are committed to the league, and have  been especially encouraged by the support University of Texas and  University of Oklahoma officials have shown.



					 
				



23  Comments  
					| Post a comment


				  









   Email
   Print
  


				

					 
				




			 
		



		 
	


 


 

	 




 Shane  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:57PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I think the SEC should sue the Big12 for interfering with it's business by initiating contact with Arkansas. Baylor has no legal cause of action. They also have  no sovereign immunity.  Think twice before you start a fight you cannot win.




			 
		




 larry  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:27PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is as big of cry baby's as tcipers. tu knows they are going to get hurt in the long run. Baylor knows it will be hurt right away when big 12(10) dissolves




			 
		




 BC  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:00PM

					(Report Comment)
					












When the SWC disbanded, Baylor had no issues about how Rice, Houston,TCU and SMU felt about being left by the roadside for dead. Now that they are the ones who soon will be tossed to the wolves, suddenly there's a problem. That problem is that every Big 12 school except Baylor has at least one BCS conference offer on the table to choose from if everybody leaves.




			 
		




 Annie  
Sep. 07, 2011, 11:39AM

					(Report Comment)
					












I thought the question was, "What do you think about continued assaults on the Big 12 conference and Texas A&M's potential to leave"?  What does water conservation have to do with the topic? Stick with the issue on hand.

Saddly, the Big 12 is running out of time. Pride, greed, envy and anger is directly to blame for the collapse of not only the Big 12 but all NCAA sports as well as our society.




			 
		




 El Diablo  
Sep. 02, 2011, 7:32AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Tax dollars not supporting out of state teams? Like the ones in Oklahoma, Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, Kansas, etc?




			 
		




 Dale  
Sep. 02, 2011, 5:39AM

					(Report Comment)
					












I understand how you feel, Bob. But, it still takes more than one Aggie to change a light bulb.




			 
		




 Bob  
Sep. 01, 2011, 10:32AM

					(Report Comment)
					












I want to add my laments about the SWC. Once that TX conference (plus Univ of ARK) disbanded, the loyalty question to our state ended. Now it is and should be for each univ to do what is best for their own. People are whining about the economic impact of A&M leaving. I understand that. Money & prosperity naturally gravitates to Aggie-owned businesses and endeavors. Aggie grads are the most productive, resourceful, and successful people in the state, and even though A&M risks being a sports doormat in the SEC for a while, they will eventually blend in with the higher standards of the SEC, which is the toughest sports conference in the US. Obviously a lot of posters on here are jealous of A&M and the success of its grads, but they sure would like to have the Aggs' money surrounding them.




			 
		




 Gary  
Aug. 31, 2011, 10:11PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Everybody in Texas and the Big 12 hate the Aggies except those that are "brainwashed Aggies" and we are excited you are leaving the Big 12. We are a conference of CLASS and you don't belong or fit into it. Don't let the door hit you in the ass on the way out.




			 
		




 Mustang Guy  
Aug. 31, 2011, 4:15PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Where there is smoke....there's also fire!




			 
		




 mikey  
Aug. 30, 2011, 3:57AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Too embaressed to stay in the same conference with Baylor. And as usual Baylor will take advantage of minorities by snatching up land for as Ron said "pennies on the dollar". Waco is being asked to conserve water this summer, You could drown walking from one side of the Baylor campus to the other. Just this past week I saw a sidewalk at Baylor covered in water 3 inches deep from a broken sprinkler head. At least parts of University-Parks Drive conforms with the school colors. Green on one side of the street, crispy gold on the other side.




			 
		




 Wildcat  
Aug. 27, 2011, 4:08PM

					(Report Comment)
					












This is all about money! A&M thinks Longhorns getting way to much so they want to take their teams some where else. Just like a spoiled child they have to have everything their way or else!




			 
		




 tootall  
Aug. 22, 2011, 6:41PM

					(Report Comment)
					












This would mean I care about sports.  In my opinion, athletes whether college or professional,over paid and over rated.  Athletes need to live in the real world and stop thinking they are gods.




			 
		




 Rod  
Aug. 21, 2011, 5:05PM

					(Report Comment)
					












It doesn't seem like the Big 12 is making a move to replace Colorado and Nebraska, so I agree their days are numbered. I just read John Werner's column about Baylor wanting a new stadium closer to campus. That's fine with me. With the BRIC not too far from the school, they may as well buy up East Waco for pennies on the dollar to close the gap. They already own downtown. They could have an on-campus stadium and a mighty big stretch of land to grow for the next 200 years.




			 
		




 Ryan  
Aug. 21, 2011, 2:20PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Sure, I hope the Big12 stays together and even adds a couple of teams.  With that being said, Baylor better be looking at conference alternatives such as the ACC, Big East ect...   It appears the days of the Big12 are just about over and hopefully Baylor is doing something to protect themselves and remain in a BCS conference.  I'm really hoping they are not placing all their trust in the Longhorns.  I would hate to see all the progress Baylor has made in recent years to be forgotten and reversed if they end up in Conference USA.  Hey Ken Starr, get on the phone and start working out something for Baylor to leave.  It would be great if Baylor was the first domino to fall and leave for another conference.




			 
		




 Allen  
Aug. 19, 2011, 3:17PM

					(Report Comment)
					












To those who would say their interest died when the SWC folded, I would say you aren't really a fan. If anything the type of fan that surfaces and shows support during good times. There is a higher level of play and quality of opponents for the majority of teams in the Big XII. Look no further than the school that should not have been included that was forced to scramble to upgrade their execution and facilities to compete.




			 
		




 Don  
Aug. 18, 2011, 10:40AM

					(Report Comment)
					












It seems that memories are short at Baylor. Where were the Bear fans when TCU, SMU, Rice and Houston were left out of the Big Twelve. I miss the SWC as well and wish that it could be revived. As teams continue to leave; old rivalaries will continue to be lost such as those with the afore mentioned SWC schools.  Loss of the Baylor - A & M rivalary is a tradition with a lot of history.  Somehow, equitable financing for all schools needs to be worked out.  It is a shame that A & M is so eager to break traditions with old foes that are in some cases over 100 years old.  Especially since A & M is such a tradition rich school.




			 
		




 Ron  
Aug. 18, 2011, 9:48AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Kyle, I agree with you 100 percent. It has never been the same since the SWC died.




			 
		




 Kyle  
Aug. 18, 2011, 8:13AM

					(Report Comment)
					












When the SWC died, so did much of my interest in Texas teams.  The SWC was a great conference.  <><




			 
		




 JC  
Aug. 17, 2011, 1:33PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I think A@M are free to do as they want...only without my tax dollars. There is no way tax dollars from the state of Texas should ever support an out of state school or conference who takes away from the revenue in Texas. I think our state legislature needs to make it mandatory that any school that recieves state funding aligns themselves with schools within the state.




			 
		




 Jerome  
Aug. 17, 2011, 8:08AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Teasippers started this with their "network", they had to know there would be a great amount of pushback. Aggies are just saying they don't necessarily have to take it.




			 
		




 Ron  
Aug. 16, 2011, 9:18AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Everyone is looking at how it will effect Waco, which is fine. The bigger question is how will Baylor not playing at A&M effect Bryan/College Station economy. Chances are it would be very little. Let A&M do as they wish. Even if the Big 12 breaks up and even though Baylor has made great strides in most of their athletic programs, I think they would be well-served by being in a better conference.




			 
		




 Boo  
Aug. 16, 2011, 9:04AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Personally, I think A&M should stay put and keep the Big XII conference alive. I don't think they would be able to compete with the SEC schools in most sports. I would compare it to when the Big XII first started and what Baylor went through. They took their lumps at first but they have a little more staying power, but I can't see A&M ever getting to that point if they were to move to the SEC.




			 
		




 Dale  
Aug. 16, 2011, 1:04AM

					(Report Comment)
					












May as well call it what it has become -- minor league teams for the NFL, MLB, and NBA.




			 
		



	 






 
 





Name: (required) 

Email: (required) 



Comments: 















	 












 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 
Blogs





 

Joe Science
Waco back in triple digits

 
 
 
 
Sound & Sight
Friday amusement: The Build-Your-Own-Bear Conference

 
 
 
 
High School Sports
Bonus football notes: Tidbits about Central Texas teams
Podcast: This week's football preview

 
 
 
 
The Bear Blog
Podcast: Talking TCU (RG3 for Heisman?), Big 12 future and more

 
 
 

Music Notes
Holly Tucker Releases New CD After Winning Prestigious Statewide Music Competition

 
 
 
 
Waco Politics Report
Jim Dunnam talks to Bryan-College Station Democrats

 
 
 
 
Mike's Marketplace
C3/Customer Contact Channels still seeking job applicants

 
 
 
 
Wendy Does Waco
Trying to pick up the pace

 
 
 

Order Up!
More frozen yogurt headed to Waco

 
 
 
 
 
More blogs
Voices around the community.
• All blogs
 
 








 





 
New issue!


Check out the September  issue
Link: View the magazine as virtual flipbook

 







 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 







 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 







 





 

 



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




