  Sex with a friend | Julius Kay






							Julius Kay							Telling it as it is




Home
Connect on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
RSS for Entries
Register 



 




Home
Celebrities

Musicians



Health

Body Health

Family

Baby & Toddler

Priginancies



Mind



Love & Sex

Marriege

Relationships

Sex



News

Business News

Gossip

News Papers

Opinion

Sports

Strange News

Technology

Tweets

Ugandan News

World News



Radios

Records

Biographies

Dates

Births

Marriege



Other Records

Priginancies



Style

Did You See It

Fashion

Life Style



Who dates Who

Dated

Divorced

Engagged

Flings

Married



Photos

Web Pics
Julius Kay
In the News
Facebook Pals
Zari’s Party
New From The News












Sex with a friend

July 13, 2011  |  
Filed under: Sex  |  
Posted by: Julius Kay




QUESTION I have had a few flings since  divorcing seven years ago, but my most significant relationship has been  my long-standing friendship with a divorced man who lives in my street.  We play tennis, go to the cinema and counsel each other on romantic  disappointments. Then, a month ago, we got drunk at a party and ended up  in bed together. I thought the sex was great, but he acts as if nothing  happened and avoids talking about it. Though he behaves as fondly as  ever, I’m confused. What should I do?
ANSWER Your query makes me  think of When Harry Met Sally and the age-old question of whether men  and women can ever just be good friends, without a glimmer of sexual  tension.
I tend to find that in heartfelt  friendships between members of the opposite sex there is generally some  form of suppressed (or not so suppressed) tendresse between the players.  That’s why friendships between men and women have a tantalising  character, quite different from same-sex closeness.
Often what people value in these  relationships is the sense they can enjoy intimacy without the fear they  will be disillusioned, because there’s an underlying understanding that  the two participants won’t take things any further.

You two have broken that sacred  pact. So it’s hardly surprising that it’s left you both with a sense of  confusion. You would clearly like to continue having some form of sexual  relationship, while he seems unwilling to pursue this option.
There are several likely reasons  for his reluctance. It may simply be the case that he thought the sex  was rather less sizzling than you did. However, it seems equally likely  to me that he simply places greater value on you as a friend than as a  lover, however enjoyable the sex.
Either way, it’s probable he doesn’t want to discuss the matter for fear of hurting your feelings.
By middle age, most of us are  aware that relationships based on sexual chemistry can prove fleeting,  while strong friendships should last a lifetime. He may worry, with good  reason, that if he changes the footing of your friendship he will lose  you.
After all, you say the two of you  have discussed your “romantic disappointments”, so you will both be  aware of how hard it is to forgive a lover who has let you down.
What happens if you continue having sex for a year and then one of you decides to end it?
What happens if you start sleeping  together and then one of you falls deeply in love with someone else?  How can your friendship survive that unscathed?
And don’t forget that this man has  intimate knowledge of the way you handle relationships. Perhaps he  knows he can’t live up to your expectations – or perhaps he thinks you  would be too tricky to handle in more intimate circumstances.
The  reason I say all this is because I have good female friends I would not  wish on any man and can equally think of some close male friends who I  adore, but thank my lucky stars I have never dated.
The very traits that make them fascinating, charismatic and funny pals make them lousy lovers.
One woman I know had a similar  friendship to the one you describe, with a man who was her best friend  through two marriages, but things went pear-shaped after they slept  together on a trip to Cornwall.
She says: “I couldn’t stop myself  becoming needy and demanding, while he became a bit cool and distant. It  was terrible when he wouldn’t answer my calls, when before he’d always  been available to me – even if I phoned at three in the morning.” She  said she bitterly regretted them having sex.
Of course, there are numerous  couples who developed a sexual relationship only after being friends for  some time and then went on to have highly successful partnerships – but  your male friend doesn’t seem to want this. You have tried to talk to  him about what happened, but he’s rebutted your attempts.
Obviously, you could push the  matter, but I’d do so only if you’re prepared to face harsh, but honest  truths – and if you feel this won’t push him further away from you.
Maybe  just tell him that you want to clear the air, but that you’ve  interpreted his reluctance to discuss your night together as a clear  sign he doesn’t want a sexual relationship. And if that’s the case, you  aren’t angry with him. Make it clear the most important thing is your  friendship.
That should set the right  conditions for openness. However, if you still draw a blank then I think  you should draw a line under the incident. Push things any further and  he’ll clam up.
The truth is you would both have to be sure your relationship had a real future to risk jeopardising it.
You may have to recognise that some men and women are better suited to a romantic friendship than a full-blown romance.




Tweet








 


Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Connect with FacebookName *
Email *
Website
 Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 


 




 







About Julius Kay
Julius Kay is a radio programmer. Through this website he shares with the world what he and his staff have seen, read or heard. The Intention of this website is simple, Share Knowledge.



Sponsorships
This is a voluntary Project even though I put in money to make this possible. You can get part of the project by donating loose change to support the project to facilitate our journalists.




Contacting Me
Just use my Contact Page or Call 0702525877








↑ Julius Kay


Log in - 
						Powered by Techsys Ltd - 
			Designed by Techsys





 




