The Lincoln Tribune - powered by FeedBurner
&



The Lincoln Tribune

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get The Lincoln Tribune delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Survivor of plane crash in western Russia dies in hospital


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 08:30:55 +0000
MOSCOW (BNO NEWS) -- One of the only two people who survived a plane crash in western Russia last week died at a hospital in Moscow on early Monday morning, officials said. The other survivor remains in a critical condition.

The Yak-Service Airlines plane, with 37 passengers and 8 crew members on board, crashed on Wednesday as it was attempting to take off from Tunoshna Airport in Yaroslavl Oblast, which is about 250 kilometers (160 miles) northeast of Moscow. It was carrying members of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey team.

A brief statement released by the Vishnevsky Institute of Surgery in Moscow confirmed side player Alexander Galimov had passed away on early Monday morning. "Despite ongoing therapy with the use of all possible treatment in the burn center of the Vishnevsky Institute of Surgery, Alexander Galimov died from severe burns," the statement said.

Earlier, Institute Director Valery Kubyshkin said Galimov had suffered severe burns covering about 90 percent of his body. "Throughout the day his condition has been relatively stable. It gives me hope," he said on Friday.

Meanwhile, flight attendant Alexander Sizov, who was able to walk away from the plane wreckage, remains in a critical but stable condition at another hospital in Moscow. Doctors on Monday said his condition had slightly improved and Sizov is no longer in a life-threatening condition.

On Saturday, the bodies of fourteen members of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey team were buried in the city of Yaroslavl. The funerals took place after a memorial ceremony at the sport complex Arena-2000, where fans, friends and family gathered to say farewell to the victims of the deadly crash.

The Yak-42 aircraft was carrying the Lokomotiv Yaroslavi ice hockey team to the Belarusian capital of Minsk to play a game, and International Ice Hockey Federation president Rene Fasel called the crash "the darkest day in the history of our sport."
  (Copyright 2011 by BNO News B.V. All rights reserved. Info: sales@bnonews.com.) 



Thousands flee in south-central Vietnam following tsunami rumors


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 06:59:56 +0000
LY VINH, VIETNAM (BNO NEWS) -- Thousands of people on a small island off the south-central coast of Vietnam fled to higher ground on Saturday after rumors spread that a distant earthquake had generated a large tsunami, local media reported on Monday.

The Tuoi Tre newspaper reported that the scare happened on Saturday morning on the island of Ly Son, which is located several kilometers (miles) off the coast of south-central Vietnam. It has a population of nearly 20,000 people.

According to the report, several fishermen believed a powerful earthquake had occurred, generating a large tsunami which was heading towards Vietnam. The fishermen then warned family members and friends and urged them to run to higher ground.

"Seeing other people running up a mountain prompted me and many other people to start running as well," a district official told the newspaper. People returned to their homes after being assured by officials that there was no threat of a tsunami.

Officials are still investigating the source of the rumor. 

Earlier this year, Vietnam successfully tested its first national tsunami warning center, but the system is still in its early stages and does not cover Ly Son island. Although the risk of a tsunami hitting Vietnam is very low, more warning stations are expected to be built along the coast in 2012.
  (Copyright 2011 by BNO News B.V. All rights reserved. Info: sales@bnonews.com.) 



Tanzania declares three days of mourning after ferry sinking kills 200


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 05:56:16 +0000
DODOMA (BNO NEWS) -- Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete on Sunday declared three days of mourning as the death toll surpassed 200 after an overcrowded ferry sank off Zanzibar on Saturday.

The accident happened at around 2 a.m. local time on Saturday when the MV Spice Islander I capsized and sank during a trip from Unguja Island to Pemba Island, the two main islands of the Zanzibar archipelago. It is believed as many as 1,000 people were on board. 

"We will have three days of national mourning from today on September 11, 2011," Kikwete said in a statement on Sunday as search and rescue operations were continuing for an unknown number of people, although the chances of finding any survivors from the disaster were slim. 

"More than 200 bodies [have been found] so far," the president said on Monday morning when asked by BNO News. In addition, officials in the semi-autonomous republic of Zanzibar said at least 610 people have been rescued, including more than 160 people who have been hospitalized.

It remains unclear how many people were on board the ferry, which was only designed to carry around 200 people at most. The figures released by the government so far add up to 810, but it is believed more than 1,000 people were on board the vessel when it capsized.

The ferry sinking is Zanzibar's deadliest ever disaster. Tanzania's worst maritime disaster occurred in May 1996 when the MV Bukoba sank on Lake Victoria, killing at least 800 and as many as 1,000 people.
  (Copyright 2011 by BNO News B.V. All rights reserved. Info: sales@bnonews.com.) 



Fighter jets intercept Detroit-bound plane after passengers ‘make out’ in bathroom


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 05:21:35 +0000
DETROIT (BNO NEWS) -- Two fighter jets intercepted a Detroit-bound passenger plane on Sunday after two or three passengers were observed behaving suspiciously, officials said. It is believed some sort of sexual activity may have been involved.

The incident involved Frontier Airlines Flight 623 from Denver to Detroit, where it landed at around 3.30 p.m. local time. "Two passengers were observed behaving suspiciously [..], spending an extraordinarily long time in the lavatory," a spokesperson for the airline said. "Authorities were contacted."

According to witnesses, two men and a woman seated in the same row repeatedly went to the plane's bathroom and spent a long amount of time there. Law enforcement sources told ABC News that the people were "making out" in the bathroom, and that some sort of sexual activity may have been involved.

Because of the suspicious behavior, the pilot of the plane declared an emergency and fighter jets were scrambled to follow the plane until it landed safely in Detroit. Police armed with machine guns boarded the plane after it landed and directed to a pad a distance from the concourse.

"The policeman said everybody remain seated. Everyone remains seated. If you get out of your seats you will be taken care of quickly," Marilyn Dietrick, one of the passengers, told WXYZ-TV. "They had us put our hands up on the seats and heads down."

The three passengers involved in the incident were quickly removed from the aircraft and taken into custody, officials said. They were later released with no charges filed, but officials refused to say what the passengers were doing in the bathroom.

The scare took place on the tenth anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when nineteen al-Qaeda terrorists hijacked four passenger planes before crashing two of them into the World Trade Center in New York and another into the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. The fourth, United Flight 93, crashed into a field in Stonycreek Township near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Nearly 3,000 people were killed.
  (Copyright 2011 by BNO News B.V. All rights reserved. Info: sales@bnonews.com.) 



Israel to relocate 30,000 Bedouins from unrecognized villages


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 03:21:47 +0000
JERUSALEM (BNO NEWS) -- The Israeli government on Sunday approved a plan to relocate some 30,000 Bedouins who are living in unrecognized villages in the Negev region to recognized settlements.

As part of the plan, for which the state will allocate 1.2 billion shekel ($334 million), those relocated will receive financial compensation and alternate plots of land, the government said.

"Given the situation that has been created in the Negev, the time has come to act. This started with the previous government and is being decided upon by us," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said. "A decision must be made for the country and for the development of the Negev and its residents, Jews and Bedouin alike."

The issue of Bedouin communities in Negev has been present since the establishment of Israel. The Bedouins have complained that the lands where their 'illegal' villages are belong to them before the inception of Israel.

"Ownership claims over land will be dealt with in a unified and transparent method to be provided for by law and according to which compensation will be provided for in significant amounts of land and funds", a statement from the Israeli government said. "Thus, for example, every land ownership claim by a claimant who holds land, the status of which will be fully provided for, will receive 50% of the claim, as opposed to the 20% being currently offered."

Some 150 members of the Bedouin community gathered outside the prime minister's office in Jerusalem on Sunday to protest the decision. A Bedouin representative called the decision "a declaration of war," according to Haaretz newspaper.

Adalah, the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel, slammed the government's approval, saying it would result in the uprooting of tens of thousands of people and the demolition of many Bedouin villages. The Association for Civil Rights in Israel also condemned the decision, arguing that the conditions the government sets for recognizing Bedouin villages are prejudicial.
  (Copyright 2011 by BNO News B.V. All rights reserved. Info: sales@bnonews.com.) 





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


