Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Hurricane Katrina”
        
                                



Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





New Orleans Relieved to Find Lee Is No Katrina but Mayor Urges Residents to Remain Vigilant 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:50 PM





Cecil Flemming tries to maneuver his wheelchair through the waters on the Mandeville, La. lakefront of Lake Pontchartrain after waters crashed over the seawall from Tropical Storm Lee, on Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011. (AP Photo/The Times-Picayune, Ted Jackson)New Orleans suffered no "major hit" from Tropical Storm Lee but residents should remain vigilant, Mayor Mitch Landrieu said on Sunday.


            Continue reading New Orleans Relieved to Find Lee Is No Katrina but Mayor Urges Residents to Remain Vigilant .
        





Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:46 PM





Waves in Lake Pontchartrain from tropical storm Lee crash into a seawall in the West End section of New Orleans on Saturday, Sept. 3. Heavy rain and strong wind gusts from Lee knocked out power to thousands in south Louisiana and Mississippi. (Newscom)Tropical Storm Lee dumped more than a foot of rain in New Orleans and spun off tornadoes elsewhere Sunday as its center came ashore in a slow crawl north that raised fears of inland flash flooding in the Deep South and beyond.


            Continue reading Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland .
        





President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:23 PM





President Barack Obama walks with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Fayette Avenue in Wayne, N.J., Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011, as he visits flood damage caused by Hurricane Irene. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)President Barack Obama stood on a bridge overlooking the rain-swollen and fast-rushing Passaic River in Paterson, New Jersey's third-largest city, and said Sunday the federal government would work to rebuild towns recovering from Hurricane Irene's wrath.


            Continue reading President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery .
        





20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011 11:42 AM





This satellite image taken by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration early Friday shows the tropical depression advancing on the U.S. southeastern states. The storm is expected to intensify to tropical storm strength before making landfall in Louisiana on Saturday. (NOAA/AP)A tropical depression packing walloping rains for the Gulf Coast was spreading its rain bands Friday over southern Louisiana ahead of what forecasters warned could be a drenched Labor Day weekend across the region, with up to 20 inches in places.


            Continue reading 20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast.
        





Lessons Learned from Katrina with Government's Response to Irene 


    
                By UCN on August 29, 2011  6:55 PM





Flood water begins to recede along Queen Elizabeth Avenue following the effects of hurricane Irene in Manteo, N.C., Sunday, Aug. 28. (Gerry Broome/AP)Six years after "Katrina" became shorthand for a botched response to a crisis, authorities at all levels of government are winning praise for their handling of Hurricane Irene.


            Continue reading Lessons Learned from Katrina with Government's Response to Irene .
        





Jury Convicts 5 Officers in Post-Katrina Shootings 


    
                By UCN on August  5, 2011  1:24 PM





A federal jury on Friday convicted five current or former police officers in the deadly shootings on a New Orleans bridge after Hurricane Katrina.


            Continue reading Jury Convicts 5 Officers in Post-Katrina Shootings .
        





Pastor Fred Luter, Jr. on Race, Preaching, and New Orleans with TIME Magazine 


    
                By UCN on June 20, 2011  6:33 PM





Pastor Fred Luter, of New Orleans, acknowledges the crowd at the Southern Baptist Convention prior to to being elected as the first African-American vice president of the organization, Tuesday, June 14, 2011, in Phoenix.Pastor Fred Luter, Jr. rebuilt his home church Franklin Avenue Baptist after Hurricane Katrina. 


            Continue reading Pastor Fred Luter, Jr. on Race, Preaching, and New Orleans with TIME Magazine .
        





For the Southern Baptist Convention, Disaster Relief is a Calling 


    
                By UCN on May 10, 2011  6:37 AM





Marteen and Wiley Blankenship of Decatur, Ala., spent their 48th anniversary last week volunteering with the Southern Baptist Convention's disaster relief effort helping tornado victims in Rainsville.Some couples spend retirement playing the nation's best golf courses or hopping cruise ships. Not Marteen and Wiley Blankenship. They collect disasters the way other retirees collect passport stamps.


            Continue reading For the Southern Baptist Convention, Disaster Relief is a Calling .
        





In Yazoo, Mississippi, Healing and Gratitude a Year After a Tornado


    
                By UCN on May  6, 2011 10:30 AM





Wendy Riley's new home has a cross from bricks salvaged from her old one.Just over a year ago, when the 170-mile-an-hour winds of a deadly tornado ripped the eastern stretch of this town to shreds, Noreene Girard could do nothing but cry.


            Continue reading In Yazoo, Mississippi, Healing and Gratitude a Year After a Tornado.
        





Obama to Visit Tornado Victims 


    
                By UCN on April 29, 2011  7:45 AM






President Obama Pledges Help for Tornado VictimsPresident Barack Obama has called the loss of life after the devastating tornadoes 'heartbreaking' and pledged government support.US president Barack Obama to visit Tuscaloosa in Alabama after storms kill 300 across seven southern states


            Continue reading Obama to Visit Tornado Victims .
        





World Vision Responds to Severe Weather in Alabama, Southern States


    
                By UCN on April 29, 2011  7:40 AM






Alabama Tornado: Dramatic Amateur Videos, Massive Storm AftermathAt least 290 people were killed across six states - more than two-thirds of them in Alabama - as America's deadliest tornado outbreak in almost four decades pulverized entire neighborhoods.World Vision's domestic relief team is preparing to deploy from the Dallas area to Alabama and nearby states hardest-hit by last night's storms. The team will depart this Saturday morning to assess the damage caused by the series of destructive storms and tornadoes that struck half a dozen U.S. states on Wednesday.


            Continue reading World Vision Responds to Severe Weather in Alabama, Southern States.
        






Japan Earthquake Aid Totals $23 Million - Far Less Than Haiti


    
                By UCN on March 15, 2011  7:58 AM





Syunsuke Doi, left, at the gymnasium in Higashi-Matsushima where he had made a grim discovery. "I didn't want to believe it, but I came here -- and it's my wife and my children," he said.Individuals, companies and charities have been quick to rally in the aftermath of the massive earthquake that rocked Japan on Friday, but donations have been slow to come.


            Continue reading Japan Earthquake Aid Totals $23 Million - Far Less Than Haiti.
        






Smaller New Orleans After Katrina, Census Shows 


    
                By UCN on February  4, 2011  7:15 AM





When Hurricane Katrina hit and the murky waters rushed through levee breaches, even the facts were drowned.


            Continue reading Smaller New Orleans After Katrina, Census Shows .
        






5 Years After Rita Hit, Some Left Out of Recovery  


    
                By UCN on September 24, 2010  7:17 AM





Cameron First Baptist Church treasurer Cyndi Sellers, bottom, walks underneath a sign Monday erected after Hurricane Rita destroyed the church in Cameron, La.First Baptist Church in this southwestern Louisiana town is finally celebrating its reopening, five years after the community was nearly obliterated by one of the most destructive storms in U.S. history: Hurricane Rita.


            Continue reading 5 Years After Rita Hit, Some Left Out of Recovery  .
        






In New Orleans, Black Churches Face a Long, Slow Return  


    
                By UCN on August 30, 2010  8:34 AM





His rebuilt home replaced the sanctuary Mr. Duplessis couldn't afford to replace, which had stood on Flood Street.Five minutes past 9:30 a.m. on a Sunday this month, which is to say five minutes past the time the worship service was supposed to start, Shantell Henley pushed open the front door of her pastor's house in the Lower Ninth Ward. 


            Continue reading In New Orleans, Black Churches Face a Long, Slow Return  .
        






For Spike Lee, a New Requiem for New Orleans  


    
                By UCN on August 26, 2010  5:35 AM





Spike Lee on the set of his HBO movie, "If God is Willing and the Creek Don't Rise."Four years ago Spike Lee took his cameras to New Orleans to document the disaster wrought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, as told by the people still dealing with its calamitous effects. 


            Continue reading For Spike Lee, a New Requiem for New Orleans  .
        






Five Years After Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, Habitat for Humanity Has Built More Than 2,200 New Homes, Helped With Home Repairs and Clean Up


    
                By UCN on August 10, 2010  1:27 PM





Work continues to build additional affordable housing along the U.S. Gulf Coast


            Continue reading Five Years After Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, Habitat for Humanity Has Built More Than 2,200 New Homes, Helped With Home Repairs and Clean Up.
        






Anderson Cooper Becoming a Loud Voice for Gulf Residents  


    
                By UCN on June 18, 2010  7:58 AM





Reporter Anderson Cooper of CNN on an assignment with Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana."There aren't any small people here," the CNN anchor Anderson Cooper said from Louisiana on his prime-time program Wednesday night, emphatically rejecting the remarks by BP's chairman that the oil company cares "about the small people."


            Continue reading Anderson Cooper Becoming a Loud Voice for Gulf Residents  .
        






Oil Spill Crisis Prompts National Soul Searching  


    
                By UCN on June  6, 2010 11:03 AM





People gathered at an intersection in Bloomington, Minn. to protest against the actions of the BP, the company formerly known as British Petroleum. The oil spill from a BP oil drilling operation in the Gulf of Mexico has surpassed the Exxon Valdez spill, and it continues to gush oil as of the day of this protest.The  "BP oil spill" in the Gulf of Mexico  is revealing the unsteady ground the country walks on, and people are feeling this more keenly now than ever before-more so because unlike the Haiti earthquake or the Indian Ocean tsunami, the oil spill is a man-made disaster.


            Continue reading Oil Spill Crisis Prompts National Soul Searching  .
        





                                    1 2  Next >












 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










