Moe Lane








Home
About
Liber Licentiae Moeticae
GURPS 4E Thumbnail Alternate Earths.
Webcomics I admit reading.
Filthy Lucre.  Filthy. Lucre.













Moe Lane
I am an evil giraffe. So "don't call my bluff."

















         Sep
12
         2011         


0












“The Watcher of Yathagggu.”

I’m a little surprised at myself that I haven’t mentioned this webcomic before: after all, The Watcher of Yathagggu is Cthulhu Mythos/steampunk* (and quite unsettling), and everybody knows how I feel about those two different genres.  This one’s also sorta-kinda post-apocalypse, in that special Mythos way.  All in all, it very favorably compares with Lovecraft is Missing, which is finally updating again, by the way.
Anyway, the current chapter to TWoY starts here, but there’s a decent-sized, tasty backlog to it. Go check it out.
Moe Lane
*Although it may be more electro-punk by now.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: cthulhu mythos, The Watcher of Yathagggu, webcomics 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
12
         2011         


0












PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.

:ahem: DOOM.
PPP spells it out, and it’s good news for Republican Bob Turner.
Turner’s winning in a heavily Democratic district for two reasons: a huge lead with independents and a large amount of crossover support.  He’s ahead by 32 points at 58-26 with voters unaffiliated with either major party.  And he’s winning 29% of the Democratic vote, holding Weprin under 60% with voters of his own party, while losing just 10% of Republican partisans.
PPP goes on to blame the President for this one (both candidates have positive favorable ratings, although Bob Turner’s is notably better).  To give you an idea of how bad things are for Obama in NY-09, check this out: “Obama trails Mitt Romney 46-42 in a hypothetical match up in the district and leads Rick Perry only 44-43.”  It would seem that President Obama is highly unpopular with orthodox Jewish voters (Turner leads 56/39) and people who care about Israel (Turner leads there 71/22) right now.  Go figure.
So… I am going to go out on a limb, here:
DOOM.
Moe Lane
PS: Bob Turner for NY-09.  DOOM or not, no time to get cocky.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: bob turner, dave weprin, doom, new york, ny-09 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


1












“Star-Spangled Banner.”


 
Damned allergy season.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: buckingham palace, star-spangled banner 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


6












Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!

Republicans: lolwhut?
OK, I understand the need for consistent and drumbeat messaging of one side’s partisan talking points, but this is getting ridiculous.
President Barack Obama:
Pass this jobs bill — pass this jobs bill, and starting tomorrow, small businesses will get a tax cut if they hire new workers or if they raise workers’ wages.
The bill has not been written yet.
Valerie Jarrett, senior White House adviser:
Congress should pass this bill right now.
Again, the bill has not been written yet.
Huffington Post:
During a time of national crisis, the president has submitted an urgently-needed jobs bill that is well within the mainstream for Republicans as well as Democrats.
What part of THE BILL HAS NOT BEEN WRITTEN YET is so hard to understand?
 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: democrats, jobs bill, schrodinger, the bill has not yet been written 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


0












#rsrh The DOOM that came to NY-09?

It’s always hard to judge special election prospects from the polls, but if the teaser that Democratic pollster Tom Jensen put out on September 8th plays out tonight at 11 PM, it might be enough for the coveted DOOM tag for Dave Weprin.
Well, possibly not coveted by Weprin.  We’ll see tonight: I should update this post then.  Unless I don’t.
Moe Lane
PS: Bob Turner for NY-09.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: bob turner, david weprin, new york, ny-09 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


7












#rsrh QotD, Krugman Being… Krugman edition.

It’s always entertaining to watch somebody like Paul Krugman demonstrate that he does not, in fact, know how to regulate his own comments section:
I’m not going to allow comments on this post, for obvious reasons.
I believe that the technical term for this is ‘epistemic closure.’
Via Hot Air Headlines.
Moe Lane
PS: I had more – mostly some technical observations on the proper way to regulate one’s comments section, coupled with a fully-justified sneer or two towards Lefty antiwar projector-types like Krugman – but, really, the better thing to do is not dwell on those poor unfortunates and instead offer up a prayer or two for the lost, and their loved ones.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: 9/11, hell tell it to the sunni, paul krugman, tell it to the afghanis, tell it to the iraqis, tell it to the israelis, tell it to the kurds, tell it to the marsh arabs, tell it to the shi'a, then duck 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


3












Obama the Speechifying Comedian!

I hadn’t really thought about it at the time, but Ann Althouse / James Taranto / Dana Milbank are all correct: the way that the GOP openly laughed at some of the more absurd things that President Obama said on Thursday was more insulting than Rep. Joe Wilson’s (perfectly-accurate) direct shout of “You lie!” at Obama’s 2009 attempt to justify his party’s disaster of a health care rationing system.  As Milbank put it:
The lawmakers weren’t particularly hostile toward the president — they just regarded the increasingly unpopular Obama as irrelevant. And the inclination not to take the 43-percent president seriously wasn’t entirely limited to the Republicans.
Do tell.  Do tell.  But please remember: it is not the Republicans’ fault that the President is in this mess.  In 2009 Barack Obama was handed a multitude of gifts by the American people: a unquestionable popular vote and an overwhelming Electoral College victory; powerful majorities in the Senate and House of Representatives; and favorable ratings from the American people rarely seen outside of wartime.  All of this translated to a perfect storm of opportunity and power.  And Barack Obama then proceeded to pi… err, throw… it all away on a stimulus that didn’t work, a cap-and-tax bill that didn’t pass, and a health care rationing system that everybody hates, and wants to die in a fire.  And, oh yes, the Lily Ledbetter Act – you know, I still can’t even remember what that one does, and I must have looked it up a dozen times.
Obama’s earned this, is all that I’m saying.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: barack obama, it is to laugh, no you can't, speechifying 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


1












Pat the bunny… OF DOOM!!!!!

Neither a Photoshop, nor the aftermath of a wacky accident:

It’s just kind of cool.
Via David Thompson, who I should link to more often.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: bunny, david thompson, pat the bunny 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
11
         2011         


0












#rsrh The Tenth Year.

This is the tenth year anniversary of the 9/11 atrocities; and it is also the first year that I cannot in fact engage in my usual habit of taunting the author of said atrocities by reminding him that he failed, because I am alive and free, and he is in hiding.  That is because Osama bin Laden is now dead and almost certainly in Hell*, and there is frankly nothing that I can do or say any longer that would make the slightest bit of difference with regard to his fate.  So – being reminded by a friend online – I have instead prayed for the souls of all those who were lost in that atrocities that day, and for all of those who have been lost since then keeping the rest of us safe from further atrocities, and for those people’s loved ones.
I think that this is a good thing to do.
Moe Lane
*There is always the chance of repentance.  God’s mercy is infinite; you just have to truly want to throw yourself on it.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: 9/11, osama bin laden 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
10
         2011         


0












“The Sounds of Silence.”


The Sounds Of Silence, Simon & Garfunkel
Remind me not to look up how old these guys must be by now, OK?
 
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: simon & garfunkel, The Sounds Of Silence 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
10
         2011         


6












California caves on Amazon tax.  For now.

The can has been kicked for another year.
Lawmakers on Friday sent Gov. Jerry Brown a compromise bill that delays California’s effort to force online retailers such as Amazon.com to collect the state’s sales taxes while retailers lobby Congress for national rules governing online sales taxes.
Essentially, California legislators passed a bill earlier this year that ‘exploited’ a loophole in federal case law that would have required Amazon.com (and others) to collect sales tax on purchases made by California residents.  Amazon.com (and others) promptly ended the affiliate program that provided the loophole.  California legislators blinked with surprise, because apparently they completely missed noticing that Amazon.com always does this (except in New York, where they’re fighting the law in court).  Shockingly, California legislators have now apparently gotten a rush of oxygen to the brain and delayed ‘implementation’ of the tax until September of 2012; this time is supposedly to allow Amazon.com and other online retailers to petition Congress to straighten out national sales tax guidelines (something that Amazon.com has been pushing for, actually). Assuming that Governor Brown signs off on this – and, given that the original bill has pretty conclusively been already shown to be wildly if not insanely optimistic in its estimated revenue*, he’d have to be extremely dumb not to** – Amazon.com will turn its affiliate program back on. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: affiliate, amazon tax, California, compromise, nexus 
Share on Facebook














         Sep
10
         2011         


1












Flash for the iPad?

If this (via @BenHowe) takes off, we’re going to see more functionality in our Apple platforms:
Adobe yesterday announced the release of Flash Media Server 4.5 and Flash Access 3.0, updated tools to allow publishers to host streaming Flash video content.
[snip]
Consequently, as media publishers begin to adopt the new Adobe software, they will be able to easily deliver HTML5-compatible content to mobile devices alongside the traditional Flash Player content. Because the feature utilizes video streaming technology rather than running the Flash content directly on the device, it does not yet support interactive Flash content such as games and banner ads, but the ability to access streaming Flash video on iOS devices will certainly be a welcome addition for many users.
I understand that people may not want the games/banner ads – and that there are issues with touchscreen-compatibility anyway – but having Flash-animated video on my iPad will be welcome.
Moe Lane
PS: Now give me more camera codecs, tanjit.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: flash, ipad 2 
Share on Facebook












Older Posts »


























 ARE YOU LOOKING AT COLLEGE TEXTBOOK PRICES, AND HAVING A CORONARY?  CLICK HERE.




Contact me.






Amount




--

The link above goes to the account paying site fees.






Blogroll

A Chequer-Board of Nights and Days (Updated)
A Conservative Lesbian
Age of Sail
Baseball Crank
Blog of Much Holding
Blueshelled
Confessions of a Political Junkie
David Thompson
Fausta’s Blog
Foundation
Hawk’s Plateau
Hickpolitics
Jeff Emanuel
Kevin Holtsberry
Liber Ex Machina
Lileks
Little Miss Attila
Markets & Policy
NTCNews
Piece of Work in Progress
Publius Forum
Rathergate (In Memoriam)


Contributors

Countup from Dystopia
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Humor

Cracked.com
Lowering the Bar
The Manolo
TV Tropes
Websnark
Weekly World News


Politics

Ace of Spades
ActiCons
Barack Obama’s Teleprompter’s Blog
Big Hollywood
Camille Paglia
Conservative Grapevine
Deceiver.com
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
IMAO
Instapundit
Jim Treacher
Jules Crittenden
Legal Insurrection
Mickey Kaus
Protein Wisdom
Reason Hit & Run
Red Dog Report
RedState
Right Wing News
The Daily Beast
The Gormogons
The New Ledger
The Other McCain
The Skepticians
What’s Wrong with the World


Reciprocal

American Elephants
Apropos of Nothing
BigGator5
HotMES
Point of a gun
Pragmatic American
The Skepticrats
The Sundries Shack
Track a ‘Crat


The Glorious Moeticae Family Empire

Liber Licentiae Moeticae
Mi Contra Fa (My wife’s site)
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Recent Comments Moe_Lane: You seem to be under the impression that Krugman’s head being filled with cheese would downgrade his...
Kresh: I suppose there’s easier ways of saying “I warned you about the aliens because they’re here...
jetty: Too bad that the Dems don’t control both the House and Senate – they could just deem it passed,...
Demosthenes: We have to pass the bill so we can find out who wrote it.
Catseye: Everyone is asleep, I don’t want to wake them up, but that hurt. It still does, it always will. Ah the...
Moe_Lane: Mike: Apparently Obama does.
Mike: So, you don’t believe in passing a bill without either reading it or have the paper necessary to sign it?
Catseye: Krugman. The Capering, Gibbering, Fool for the Left has managed to Finally outdo himself. That is all...
 Twittermoelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY September 12, 2011moelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY […]moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz September 12, 2011moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz […]moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. September 12, 2011moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. […] Technorati Profile








The background is from Maxfield Parrish's Ecstasy, and is (to the best to my knowledge) in the public domain.
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Tag Cloudbarack obama
book of the week
California
congress
cpac
damned lies
dccc
democratic party
democrats
dnc
doom
elections
Florida
harry reid
health care
illinois
illinois combine
israel
joe biden
lies
massachusetts
missouri
movie of the week
nancy pelosi
new jersey
new york
nrcc
obama
obamacare
ohio
pennsylvania
qotd
rasmussen
sarah palin
senate
statistics
stimulus
tea parties
tea party
texas
that woman
unemployment
virginia
webcomics
wisconsin












Site by Neil Stevens
 | Theme by TheBuckmaker.com






