Bossip - powered by FeedBurner
&




Bossip

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Bossip delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Daycare Owner Popped For Drugging And Beating The Kids: “I Needed Them To Sleep, Dammit!” [Video]


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 12:29:11 +0000


What is up with these “teachers?” Go Here To See About The One Who Was Just Caught For Guns And Meth Being Hidden In Her Classroom!
        
   




For Discussion: Should Broke Parents Who Are (Genuinely) Unable To Pay Child Support Be Locked Up???


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 12:28:25 +0000

It may not be a crime to be poor, but it can land you behind bars if you also are behind on your child-support payments. Thousands of so-called “deadbeat” parents are jailed each year in the U.S. after failing to pay court-ordered child support — the vast majority of them for withholding or hiding money out of spite or a feeling that they’ve been unfairly gouged by the courts.  But in what might seem like an un-American plot twist from a Charles Dickens’ novel, advocates for the poor say, some parents are wrongly being locked away without any regard for their ability to pay — sometimes without the benefit of legal representation.
Randy Miller, a 39-year-old Iraqi war vet, found himself in that situation in November, when a judge in Floyd County, Ga., sent him to jail for violating a court order to pay child support.  He said he was stunned when the judge rebuffed his argument that he had made regular payments for more than a decade before losing his job in July 2009 and had recently resumed working.
“I felt that with my payment history and that I had just started working, maybe I would be able to convince the judge to give me another month had a half to start making the payments again,” he told msnbc.com. “… But that didn’t sit too well with him because he went ahead and decided to lock me up.”  Miller, who spent three months in jail before being released, is one of six plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit filed in March that seeks to force the state of Georgia to provide lawyers for poor non-custodial parents facing the loss of their freedom for failing to pay child support.
“Languishing in jail for weeks, months, and sometimes over a year, these parents share one trait … besides their poverty: They went to jail without ever talking to an attorney,” according to the lawsuit filed by the nonprofit Southern Center of Human Rights in Atlanta.  While jailing non-paying parents — the vast majority of them men — does lead to payment in many cases, critics say that it unfairly penalizes poor and unemployed parents who have no ability to pay, even though federal law stipulates that they must have “willfully” violated a court order before being incarcerated.
They compare the plight of such parents to the poor people consigned to infamous “debtors’ prisons” before such institutions were outlawed in the early 1800s.
“I try very carefully not to exaggerate, but I do think that’s an apt comparison,” said Sarah Geraghty, the attorney handling the Georgia case for the Southern Center for Human Rights.
“And I think anyone who went down and watched one of these proceedings would agree with me. … You see a room full of indigent parents — most of them African-American — and you have a judge and attorney general, both of whom are white. The hearings often take only 15 seconds. The judge asks, ‘Do you have any money to pay?’ the person pleads and the judge says, ‘OK you’re going to jail,’” she added.
The threat of jailing delinquent parents is intended to coerce them to pay, but in rare cases it can have tragic results.
Do you believe it is fair to jail parents who can’t afford to pay their child support in this economy??  Discuss…
Source
        
   




Congratulations: Cam Newton Ties NFL Record With Balleriffic Performance In His First Game


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 12:04:10 +0000

All those critics seem awfully quiet this morning…
Cam Newton’s pro career began on the same field where his electric college career ended.
And just like the BCS title game in January, Newton was flinging the ball all over University of Phoenix Stadium and leading his offense up and down the field.
While confetti fell on Newton after Auburn beat Oregon for the national championship, there would be no storybook ending for the Panthers’ quarterback Sunday.
He’ll have to settle for tying the best passing performance by a rookie in NFL history.
Brushing off criticism that he could not succeed as a pro passer, Newton shredded the Arizona secondary for 422 yards and accounted for all three of the Panthers’ touchdowns. But the Cardinals took advantage of secondary and special teams breakdowns by the Panthers to claim a 28-21 victory and spoil the debut of the No. 1 draft pick.
Newton broke the record held by Peyton Manning (302) for passing yards by a rookie in Week 1 and equaled Matthew Stafford’s record total for rookies. Stafford, the No. 1 overall pick of Detroit, threw for 422 yards against Cleveland in Week 10 in 2009.
Play on playa, we see you!
Source
        
   




Something New: Guess Which Actor Took Jennifer Lopez On Her First Post-Marc Anthony Date??


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 11:59:20 +0000

The soon-to-be ex-Mrs. Marc Antonio Muniz was spotted on her first date in NYC yesterday with the main actor from your favorite comedy of 2009 and it’s less funny 2011 follow-up. Do you know who it is?
According to TMZ, Jennifer Lopez has kicked off her divorcee dating life with a little swirl action with gorgeous Hollyweird man-whore Bradley Cooper.

Jennifer Lopez might be moving on from hubby Marc Anthony in a big way — because last night she went out on a date with Bradley Cooper … TMZ has learned. 
We’re told the two hit up Per Se, a restaurant located at Columbus Circle in New York City. We’re told the dinner was “romantic” and was just the two of them.
SUCH an improvement on El Skeletor! 




        
   




Pure Comedy!: Somebody Is Taken Down On “Bridezilla’s” Despite His Super Power Strength!! [Video]


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 11:08:28 +0000


Pure Comedy!
        
   




Raj Patel on Why a Hamburger Should Cost $200 [Video]


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 22:43:59 +0000


http://embed.5min.com/516906298/
Raj Patel on Why a Hamburger Should Cost $200

        
   




Basketball Wives L.A. Episode 3 Sneak Peek “Booty Poppin’” [Video]


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 21:42:32 +0000
Damn @ Jackie Christie Wanting Strippers At Her Wedding.
        
   




Pastors Ex-Wife Talks Random Drug Testing For Food Stamp Recipients [Video]


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 21:29:39 +0000


SMH…
        
   




Who Is My “Black Hollyweird” Daughter?


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 17:59:27 +0000

The man pictured here with Malcolm Jamal Warner is the father of a bangin’ Black actress and the ex-husband of a Motown legend. Was that easy enough?

Yup, that’s Tracee Ellis Ross’s dad Robert Ellis Silberstein, pictured at Essence Magazine’s celebration of Tracee as their latest covergirl.
Here is again with Diana Ross’s eldest daughter Rhonda Ross Kendrick, who Robert adopted when he married Diana in 1971.

Check out who else celebrated with Essence and Tracee below.












        
   




Age Limits: “Laws” For The Little Ones…


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 17:30:49 +0000

Even though I’m not that old, I am pretty much old school when it comes to how little girls and boys should dress and behave. I was raised in the era of “stay out of grown folks business” and my mother never shopped in the same clothing store as me. In my hay day parents were parents and children were children, there was no blurry line or popularity contest between the two.
Continued at MadameNoire.com
        
   






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


