2009  May | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


California Budget Woes, Cal Fire Particulars To come
Comments Off






Reports from various sources hint that Cal Fire stands to lose $17 million from their budget due to the State being broke.
One source quotes the Governor declaring there will be a 5% pay cut across the board for state workers.
Other sources suggest Governor Schwarzenegger wants to eliminate the California Youth Authority, another consideration proposes closing down the state parks.
It seems to me the Cal Fire cuts will be seen in equipment attrition. I drove a 20 year old engine and an even older crew bus in my day so I see no harm in putting off purchases of shiny new model 5′s and water tenders.  Bulldozers age well generally and their tenders only need to get across the state a few times a year.
Cal Fire equipment is well maintained. I forget the schedules but as I recall we changed the oil on the apparatus every 1,500 miles. Safety equipment is inspected daily. A well maintained fire engine can last for decades so the dream of a new fire engine in the driveway of every station is over.
Where it will hurt is if the cuts begin to claim personnel.
Who is likely to be hurt first? At first no one in my opinion. The hiring has already been done for the 2009 fire season. At least for 2009 I don’t see much pain.
2010 will be a different story. I expect some stations and possibly some camps will be closed. I can see the state offering early retirement to guys and gals within reach.  I expect many of these positions will not be filled, possibly ever.
I cannot see air attack, fixed wing or rotary aircraft affected at all. Any attempt to save a buck or two by eliminating air support would be a mistake.
If I was the Governor I would draw on help from the President’s gargantuan list of service corps or whatever his regime is calling it.
Tens of billions of dollars is appropriated for various volunteer programs funded through the Omnibus or Stimulus/Porkulus Bills, some have to do with conservation projects.  Among the myriad of funded programs under the banner of the National Service.gov there has to be funds that can be used for essentials like fire suppression. Here is a list of funded projects for California through Americorps.
If there is money available and able body men and women who want a truly useful and rewarding job I say train them for fire crew assignment or incident base support. This is not unheard of, California Conservation Corps members, covered to some extent by Americorps already help.
The California budget pains cannot be avoided by California’s elite firefighting force. The true pain may be deferred until next year but with a little imagination and smart lobbying the cuts can be minimized.
In the meantime a potentially brutal fire season is upon us.




Posted by Mike
on 05/30/2009 •
		Filed under: Cal Fire, politics



Police Services Consolidating, Preview To The Future Of California?
1 comment






It’s happening, from state level to municipalities police services are running out of money. Yesterday the USA Today reported on the phenomenon and cited some examples of affected communities including the Palm Springs area in California.“In Southern California, Indio and its neighbors Palm Springs, Desert Hot Springs, Cathedral City and Beaumont have merged some key functions and also plan to combine dispatch operations to increase efficiency. “It’s the legacy of the budget crunch,” Indio’s Capt. Richard Banasiak says…”
The steps taken in Palm Springs are logical. What is happening in the Coachella Valley can and should be widely instituted elsewhere in California and throughout the country, how can it not?
Today in California voters are set to reject the plate of tax initiatives on the ballet. I voted no and most people I know voted no.
Enough is enough is what voters are saying. Enough tricky schemes to raise our taxes, enough giving politicians more money to pad their pet services. Enough with pure entitlements. Enough with the taxes that are driving my family and friends from their home state.
The challenge is now on the Governor and his  buds in Sacramento to actually make cuts.
He shouldn’t wait for his share of the stimulus to bail us out. He should go ahead and make some cuts. It’s unavoidable anyway. He’s too far away from the end of his term, he can’t punt, he has to pull out the pen and CUT.
It’s now on Governor Schwarzenegger. Maybe he can be the leader we thought we were getting when we voted him in.




Posted by Mike
on 05/19/2009 •
		Filed under: politics



Thermo-Gel On The Job In Santa Barbara
2 comments






Thermo-Gel was on the job in Santa Barbara last week. A homeowner protected his house from the advancing flames of the Jesusita Fire and left a note for firefighters indicating the home had been “gelled”.
The images below were provided to me by the fine people at Thermo-Gel. Notice the sign on the porch entrance.
“This House Was Protected With Thermo-Gel”
The flames came right up to the home. This homeowner did many things right, tile roof, stucco siding and an application of gel. He gets a ding for allowing giant oak branches to hang over the house but overall he gets a high B for preparing a home for life in the wildland-urban interface.
Best of all no firefighter had to risk their life to save this home!




Posted by Mike
on 05/14/2009 •
		Filed under: Defensible space, Jesusita Fire, Thermo-Gel



New Threat to California Cuts, San Quentin Prison
Comments Off






Last week California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger threatened to cut firefighters from the state budget in a deliberate attempt to scare voters into accepting his package of initiatives coming to market May 19.
That didn’t impress anyone so I guess selling San Quentin prison and the L.A. Coliseum and a few other odd holdings like the Cow Palace will?
The Santa Cruz Sentinel has a run down of the properties proposed for sale but not after looking at the list I say sell it all.
I toured San Quentin as part of a class field trip in college and my first thought as we approached the grounds was why do prisoners get to live on beachfront property?
San Quentin is situated on 450 acres on Point Quentin in Marin County. It’s on the leeward side of the San Francisco Bay, sporting perfect weather all year long. Not too hot, never too cold.
Sell to developers and hold out for a pretty penny. We have a lot of cheap desert land in California featuring endless views of cactus and Joshua trees for incarcerated convicts.
I do think Arnold will be forced to lay the smack down on Cal Fire but I have a feeling it will not include any direct firings. Positions will likely be lost by attrition. Retirees will not be replaced by new hires. Seasonal firefighters will be affected to the extent that engine crews will sport one or two seasonal firefighters to assist the captain or engineer.
Three engine stations will become two, two engine stations become single engine stations.
Rural counties like Merced could see stations closings. Planada may have to contract with Merced City, Dos Palos with Los Banos. In time Cal Fire might become a seasonal firefighting force. Does California in the condition it’s in can support a full time wildland firefighting force? I believe we do but some might argue we don’t.
The state is contracted with numerous cities to provide fire service but the writing is on the wall, some of these contracts will have to be renegotiated.
My suggestion to some of these communities is to beef up your volunteer force, be ready to protect yourself.
You have to think a day of reckoning is coming to larger city departments as well. I look for stations to consolidate, head counts to drop. For a number of reasons there are fewer fires, fewer big fires. Cities will be forced to lean on volunteers more in years ahead.
The fire service in California is not a growth industry at the moment. From the looks of it it may not be for some time to come.




Posted by Mike
on 05/14/2009 •
		Filed under: Cal Fire, politics



Jesusita Fire Tankers Diverted From Closest Base
1 comment






The Fresno Bee reports tankers assigned to the Jesusita Fire in Santa Barbara were forced to use the Porterville Air Attack Base for reloading instead of the much closer Santa Maria Airport.
The first tankers on scene Tuesday were able to reload one time in Santa Maria before being diverted to Porterville, double the distance from the fire ground.
Tankers were allowed to reload in Santa Maria Wednesday.
It would be difficult to calculate if this apparent bureaucratic snafu contributed to the severity of the blaze but the question should not have to be asked. Adding a full hour to the turn around time had to have some effect. The extra strain on pilots and ground crews waiting for their drops is immeasurable, though they would never complain.
Considering Santa Maria bisects the ever burning Los Padres National Forest it begs the question, why wasn’t there a contract in place?
As it turns out last June Los Padres honchos stripped the Santa Maria Air Attack base from “full-time service” to standby or “call-when-needed” status in a budget draw down. According to The Santa Maria Times the decision to downgrade the status of Santa Maria was made by Pacific Southwest Region Forester Randy Moore and Los Padres Forest Supervisor Peggy Hernandez.
Los Padres National Forest officials who knew better warned that initial attack on local fires would be hampered. How right they were.
The Santa Maria Times reminds us that tankers flying from Santa Maria serviced the 2007 Zaca Fire and the Tea and Gap Fires more recently. During the Zaca Fire 1,700 drops were initiated from Santa Maria. 18 air tankers called the base home during the Zaca Fire.
Two positions were cut by Forest supervisors in the Santa Maria contract shake up. Those positions were not actually cut, but reassigned. All considered the cost of a couple of airport positions pales in comparison to the cost of potential life and property loss.
There may be positions within the fire service to cut but when it comes to rotary or fixed wing aircraft no expense should be spared. Ask the guys on the ground.




Posted by Mike
on 05/09/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, air attack, Jesusita Fire



Jesusita Fire Info, Satellite Images, Maps, Links
Comments Off






Updated Info at County of Santa Barbara.
Tanker 910 is on scene. KEYT reports here. Only fire officials can answer why the contract supertanker was not called in sooner.
NOAA Sat Animation

GeoMac
InciWeb is up and running with Jesusita Fire information here.
Current Situation



Total Personnel
2,335


Size
3,500 acres


Percent Contained
10%


Fuels Involved

Chaparral (6 Feet)



Fire Behavior

Upslope runs through out the evening and early morning with 60 to 100 foot flame lengths on the upper third of the Santa Ynez Mountains. Crowning, spotting, and actively burning.



Significant Events

Increased fire activity last night caused additional evacuation in the San Roque area, Hwy 154 on the West side of the fire. Water drops were conducted throughout the night by three type II helicopters.




Outlook



Planned Actions

Perimeter control, continue structure protection, engage fire where opportunities present themselves, continue line construction, mop-up and patrol structures.



Growth Potential

High



Terrain Difficulty

Extreme



Remarks

If the Red Flag conditions continue, control strategies will be challenged.




Current Weather



Wind Conditions
20-45 g60 mph NE


Temperature
98 degrees


Humidity
10%







Posted by Mike
on 05/08/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Jesusita Fire, Sundowners



Thermo-Gel Protects Your Home From Fire
2 comments






Thermo-Gel should be in the garage of every rural home. I could write about the product all day but the video below tells the story of this remarkable product. Watch and see for yourself how Thermo-Gel works. After you do click this link for facts about Thermo-Gel.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=71NHKe3HGL4&hl=en&fs=1]
Firefighter Blog is proud to have Thermo-Gel as a sponsor




Posted by Mike
on 05/08/2009 •
		Filed under: Thermo-Gel



Santa Barbara Still Losing Homes
Comments Off






Homes are still burning in Santa Barbara as the Jesusita Fire spreads tentacles of flame through canyons and into neighborhoods. The Governor declared a state of emergency on earlier this week that allowed fire officials to order up all necessary resources, so what happened?
According to discussion on Wildland Fire more resources have been called overnight but many of these strike teams are due to arrive later today.
I am baffled as to why homes are still burning. Is it possible the fire management team was caught flatfooted or is it just too early in the season to gather appropriate resources for such a fire.
Sundowners always present unique problems and weather reports were inconsistent earlier in the week. It’s not fair to criticize when you are not on the ground but it’s easy to ask why more resources were not called in sooner.
Guaranteed every fire crew in the state was ready if called.




Posted by Mike
on 05/08/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Fire, Jesusita Fire, Sundowners



Jesusita Fire Maps and Links
1 comment






Images from Google Earth

Map from KCOY

Local Coverage KCOY.comDiscussionSearch TwitterLocal Video




Posted by Mike
on 05/07/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Jesusitas Fire, Sundowners



Jesusitas Fire Taking Out Homes in Santa Barbara County
1 comment






From a distance the Jesusitas Fire that began last evening looked fairly benign. Fire officials were “cautiously optimistic” this morning that firefighters would be able to lock this one down with minimum acreage and property loss.
Optimism was dashed late this afternoon as brisk offshore winds carried embers into adjoining neighborhoods resulting in numerous multi-million dollar family homes being burned to the ground.
Overhead camera shots from of the area of Tunnel Road and Mission Canyon Roads in Santa Barbara County show at least a dozen homes fully involved.
Terrain offers dense vegetation and steep slopes with homes occupying every ridge top. It’s apparent defensible space ordinances are only a nuisance to many residents of this community.
Two firefighters have been injured according to NBC4 News in Los Angeles.
More at NBCLA.com




Posted by Mike
on 05/07/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Sundowners



Cal Gov. Schwarzenegger Threatens To Gut Cal Fire
3 comments






In an attempt to drum up support for his confusing package of budget initiatives California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has threatened to eliminate 1,700 positions from Cal Fire. SFGate.com has the story.
According to the article the Governor wants to:
“…slashing $80.8 million from Cal Fire’s spending plan – a 10 percent reduction – by eliminating 602 full-time positions and 1,100 seasonal firefighting positions. The cuts would be part of a series of deep cuts to the state budget.
Cal Fire, the state’s fire agency, has about 5,000 full-time firefighters. At the peak of last year’s fire season, more than 2,700 wild fires ravaged the state and the agency hired extra help: 3,000 seasonal firefighters.
The plan would also shutter 11 conservation camps and 20 single-engine stations throughout California.
Closing fire stations would affect response times and the agency’s ability to make inspections on defensible spaces, according to the document….”
Who is he kidding? This is politics at its lowest. Why always tug at the fears of the electorate by scaring them into voting your way?
I’ll be the first to admit there are some stations that could disappear and maybe some of the camps could close or consolidate. I drove a 20 year old engine for a time, we don’t need a revamped fleet of Model 5′s every 2 years. Surely the department can accommodate cuts here and there and they should expect cuts.
What I can’t stand is these politicians plying on the fears of their constituents. It’s cheap and ugly.
BTW I am voting NO!




Posted by Mike
on 05/05/2009 •
		Filed under: Cal Fire, politics

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















