2009  April | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Swine Flu Cases Plotted on Google Maps
Comments Off






Swine Flu Cases Mapped

View H1N1 Swine Flu in a larger map(grab map with your mouse to move map around)




Posted by Mike
on 04/26/2009 •
		Filed under: bird flu, Google Maps, Swine Flu



Swine Flu Twitterers Of Note
2 comments






Bird Flu Gov  One-stop access to U.S. Government bird and pandemic flu information.
CDC Emergency CDC Emergency Preparedness and Response: increasing the nation’s ability to prepare for and respond to public health emergencies.
CDC Flu Get notified whenever any new or updated documents are posted anywhere on the CDC Flu Website. www.cdc.gov/flu
CDC eHealth CDC eHealth Marketing: CDC.gov and interactive media projects. Delivering science-based health & safety info when where and how you need it.
Standing Firm CM Catherine Mitchell
WHO News World Health Organization – the directing and coordinating authority within the UN system for public health
Flu Trackers  A nonprofit that is composed of a diverse group of citizens from many countries who follow and document emerging and re-emerging disease.
Health Map Public website bringing together disparate data sources to achieve a unified view of the current global state of infectious diseases




Posted by Mike
on 04/26/2009 •
		Filed under: bird flu, Swine Flu, Twitter



Stocking Up On Goods: Just In Case
1 comment






Update 4/30: Australians in Queensland advised to stockpile food in case of Swine Flu, read here.
Mexico City has been shut down. Mexico has mandated quarantine to some extent across the country. Schools are closing and public events are cancelled.
This is not a drill. The Mexican Swine Flu, a combination “avian flu, human flu Type A, human flu Type B, Asian swine flu, and European swine flu“ according to the CDC and mentioned in this editorial.
I read that a guy in Mexico City was arrested for trying to sell paper facemasks for 25 times the face value.
Tonight my wife and I stopped at Walgreen’s and bought two boxes of face masks. The product is from Medline.com and we paid $7.50 for 10 masks. Two boxes set us back $15 + the 10% California sales tax.My wife is certain the same product can be bought for $3.50 to $4.00 per box at WalMart.No matter, we paid the premium. If extended family or neighbors need a mask we will share. If things go bad these masks will become scarce.
Next stop a big box grocer, not Costco, I didn’t want to face the lines.
We stocked up on canned goods, pasta, pasta sauce, juices, frozen vegetables, salsa, bread for freezing, canned beans, rice and other frozen foods.
What good will all this do? Maybe nothing but as I said above, just in case. It’s not that I believe there will be shortages, it’s just that I want to be able to stay clear of the stores if this gets crazy.
I can say without a doubt there is no hoarding or any panic whatsoever in my community in Central California.
If it does get crazy it appears those that have flu shots, generally the young and old, may have some built in immunity or at least enough to blunt a fatal blow according to the CDC.
At least two anti-virals including Tamiflu are effective against this concoction but in the case of a widespread outbreak the stores of Tamiflu could be depleted.
Here is another worthwhile article written by an epidemiologist.
HHS recommends food storage, generally.
Update: Americans encouraged to wear masks if worried.




Posted by Mike
on 04/26/2009 •
		Filed under: bird flu, Swine Flu



Swine Flu, Wake Up Call
Comments Off






Links
Center For Disease Control and PreventionHuman Swine Influenza Investigation page.
California Governor Schwarzenegger weighs in.
Search TwitterRead DrudgeSearch GoogleSearch BlogsInfo CDCRead Breitbart
 




Posted by Mike
on 04/24/2009 •
		Filed under: bird flu, Swine Flu



Wildfire Near Myrtle Beach, SC Burns Dozens Of Homes
Comments Off










Posted by Mike
on 04/23/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season



Busy With Family Related Travel, Business & Life
Comments Off






Fire season approaches. Spring winds have howled, more than usual here in Central California, and the grass is browning. There is late snow in the Sierras which assures the high country will be green well into late Summer. Nature is setting the stage now but fate directs the stories to be told.
This season I plan to cover the major fires from this blog and Twitter. Fire activity could start any day.
In the meantime action on the family front is heating up. My oldest has decided to attend UC Merced this Fall. His original desire was to attend a private school in Arizona where his girlfriend is enrolled.
I’m proud of his decision. UC Merced is the newest school in the UC system but is already making a mark in the sciences. Enrollment is under 4,000 currently which gives the school the feel of an exclusive private college. He’ll study computer engineering.
Son #2, our sophomore is on an academic mission. He wants to be a valedictorian and earn an academic scholarship to a top school. As such he is spread out between Science Fair, Academic Decathlon and Science Olympiad. This summer he will attend a three week program at Stanford University. He is signed up for four AP classes next school year.
During Easter vacation we traveled to Arizona. We visited friends and family in Tucson and Phoenix. In Tucson we stayed in a condo  in the Starr Pass resort development. The desert setting did not disappoint. There is nothing like a desert morning. Our first morning the animals and birds of the Sonoran Desert made an appearance near our patio including white-tail rabbits, cardinals, cactus wren, curved-bill thrashers a road runner and in the distance a coyote.
My wife was taking out trash on our final evening in town and was surprised by a javelina. Instead of running, the pig-like creature stood his ground forcing my wife back in the casita. In the morning I caught a javelina on camera passing through the back of the place.
Southern Arizona is beautiful like that. In Madeira Canyon, between Tucson and the Mexican border 234 bird species were identified by bird counters in the late 1980′s.One of the recent topics in Tucson is about a Leopard captured near Mt Lemon. Leopards are indigenous to the region but one hasn’t been seen in Arizona in decades. The poor animal was  captured and moved up to Phoenix where it died, reportedly from old age.
The other talk is about the new basketball coach. The day the new coach, Sean Miller was announced we were having lunch with relatives at La Parilla Suiza. It’s been 15 years since I lived in Tucson but I am still a Wildcat fan at a distance. At lunch my brother in law and nephews were excited to discuss the new hire. Even the wait staff was energized by the buzz of the new coach. Though Tucson is home to more than a half million it has a small town quality. They have no pro teams so the University of Arizona is about it.
After we left the meal we headed to the U of A to buy our kids some tee shirts. Before we entered the gift shop adjacent to McHale Center I was approached by a local TV crew. The reporter wanted my opinion on the hiring of the new coach. I acted the part parsing from what I heard on the radio just minutes before.
I came off like I knew the subject matter. My opinion led the KVOA Channel 4 evening news at 5:00 and 10:00. Our family who we lunched with only an hour or so earlier was watching the news trying to get the very latest “breaking news” on the permanent replacement for Lute Olsen only to see my mug all over the screen.
Good luck to the Wildcats, it’s a class organization and the community deserves a winner.
In Phoenix we stayed in a place at the base of South Mountain. the Sonoran Desert is not as lush in “The Valley of The Sun” but we did see two javelina around the lodge as we drove off towards California.
The CHP is out in force on California highways. They are writing tickets like never before, a budget thing no doubt. No matter to drivers, anything less than 75 is holding up traffic. 7o MPH is max here but in AZ it’s 75.




Posted by Mike
on 04/19/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Good News: 747 Supertanker Ready to Be Deployed
2 comments






A tip from an anonymous commenter points us to this announcement from Evergreen Aviation.
“EVERGREEN SUPERTANKER READY TO FIGHT WILDFIRESThe B747 Supertanker is certified to fly by Interagency Air Tanker Board
McMinnville, Ore.—Evergreen International Aviation’s B747 Supertanker won certification for operation this season after receiving its interim approval letter from the Interagency Air Tanker Board. The aircraft also received its Supplemental Type Certificate from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in November 2008. It is now available to assist world firefighting agencies during the 2009 season and beyond. The award is unique because the Supertanker has an 8:1 drop ratio compared to that of all other current firefighting aircraft, meaning the Supertanker will forever change the way wildland fires are fought. The plane is the first of a fleet designed to accommodate the needs of U.S. and International private and public agencies.
The Supertanker showed impressive results during the U.S. Forest Service administered grid tests. From high, medium and low coverage levels, the Supertanker showed it provides quality, consistent retardant line construction. The cutting-edge aircraft proved it belongs on the front line, from the onset, to fight wildfire day and night. The uniformed pattern of the Supertanker drops, and its ability, in a single flight, for split loads at multiple coverage levels, gives agencies an incredibly versatile firefighting tool.
The multi-role B747 Supertanker is the largest tanker aircraft available today. With a payload of more than 20,000 gallons and a response time of 600 mph, it has more than eight times the drop capability and twice the speed of any other federal air tanker currently fighting fires. The Supertanker’s patented pressurized system has the capability to disperse product at high pressure for an overwhelming response, or disperse at the speed of falling rain in a single or several segmented drops. This pressurized system will also allow for drops at higher altitudes, creating a significant safety buffer and enabling the Supertanker to fight fires during the day and at night, when they are most vulnerable. It also offers a significant value for American taxpayers; saving homes, natural resources, and most importantly, lives. When employed properly, the Supertanker has the capability to save the U.S. government billions of dollars in fire suppression, natural resource losses, tourism, and rehabilitation costs every year.
Evergreen International Aviation, which has more than 70 years of firefighting experience and more than one million hours of large aircraft operating experience, has invested five years and $50 million of its own funding to develop this next generation of firefighting aircraft.
The Supertanker program will continue to grow and advance its capabilities. On the firefighting front, operations of the Supertanker will expand to Western Europe, Australia and Brazil. The aircraft will be available to provide service to international governments, as well as private industry. The next endeavor is to prove the vehicle as a solution for oil spills, decontamination of biological/chemical poisoning and radiation knock down. With this diverse range of qualifications, the Supertanker will go on protecting valuable resources for generations to come.
About Evergreen International AviationEvergreen International Aviation, Inc. is a portfolio diverse companies headquartered in McMinnville, Ore. With international operating authority and a network of global offices and affiliates, Evergreen consists of an international cargo airline that owns and operates a fleet of Boeing 747’s, an unlimited aircraft maintenance, repair, and overhaul facility, a full-service helicopter company, and aircraft ground handling company, and an aircraft sales and leasing company. In addition to these endeavors, Evergreen owns and operates Evergreen Agricultural Enterprises and is headquartered next to the not-for-profit Evergreen Aviation & Space Museum, home of the “Spruce Goose”.”




Posted by Mike
on 04/10/2009 •
		Filed under: 747 Supertanker



Texas & Oklahoma Wildfires; Two Fatalities, Dozens Injured
2 comments






Wildfires erupted in Central Oklahoma and North Texas Thursday killing a couple and injuring dozens according to the AP.
AP also reports a firefighter was injured:
“…The Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management said a firefighter helping battle a blaze in Lincoln County, northeast of Oklahoma City, was hospitalized with burns”
Houston’s Chron.com offers extensive coverage on affected cities and counties in Texas.
“The towns of Sunset and Stoneburg in Montague County were devastated Thursday. Several dozen homes were destroyed, with only a heap of debris and ashes remaining. The fires that swept through Sunset and Stoneburg were among a total of 25,000 acres of fires in the county that prompted the evacuations of Montague, Saint Jo and Bowie about 65 miles northwest of Fort Worth….”
Twitter Search results.
Google Blog Search results




Posted by Mike
on 04/10/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Oklahoma, Texas

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















