Displaced and uncertain Magnolia residents given little time to flee wildfire - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Monday, September 12, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Displaced and uncertain Magnolia residents given little time to flee wildfire

By CINDY HORSWELL, HOUSTON CHRONICLE

                                                                                Updated 10:50 p.m., Tuesday, September 6, 2011
            







Houston and Texas









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




More Information
HOW TO HELP
For those who would like to assist those affected by the wildfires, the Montgomery County United Way is asking for donations and volunteers.
Volunteers, who must be at least 18, are asked to go to www.helpourcounty.org and register. Volunteers will be asked to check on people, deliver donations and other general tasks.
Donations of goods can also be made at the same website.
To make monetary donations, call 281-292-4155 or 1-888-825-MCUW, ext. 235 or mail a check made payable to MCUW, P.O. Box 8965, The Woodlands, TX 77387. Include "Fire 2011" in the memo line.
The American Red Cross is also seeking donations for its disaster relief fund through text message. Text Redcross to 90999 to donate $10.


Page 1 of 1


John Turner and John Morrison don't know if they are still neighbors in their Magnolia RV trailer park in Waller County.
The two friends were living in identical trailers next to each other when they evacuated Monday because of a wildfire burning out of control. But a constable late Tuesday told them the fire gutted their trailer park. He showed them photos he'd taken with his cellphone for proof.
The two evacuees could see nothing left but a single trailer that looked like one of theirs. They don't know if it's even livable. Neither had fire insurance.
"I don't know if we could live together, though," said Morrison, 67, a retired machinist. "We both have dogs that fight as soon as they get near each other."
The two neighbors had moved there after fleeing a wildfire at a different trailer park in June. "And now here it got us," said Turner, 66, a retired heavy equipment operator.
Both were numbed by the news and unclear what to do next. "Denial comes to mind," said Morrison. "They told us it could be days before we can get back in there and look."
They won't be alone. A large raging wildfire has burned thousands of acres in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties, forced hundreds of residents to flee and shut down several roads and schools.
Ken Snyder's eyes teared up as he recalled grabbing important papers and "baby stuff" for his newborn son Monday as he fled the blaze. He felt the heat and heard crackling from the flames that were no more than a 100 feet behind him as he and his fiance, Angie Gerstler, roared down their driveway in the Remington Forest subdivision near Magnolia.
He has not been home since, but relatives called to report seeing a "helicopter view" of his backyard where firefighters were spraying down his burning fence on national TV.
"We still don't know if our house is standing. They tell us that at least half the homes in our subdivision are gone, burned down," he said. His subdivision lies just across the Waller County line about 4 miles from Magnolia in Montgomery County.
When Snyder left his son at a Labor Day party at his brother's house to check on his property, he thought he'd have more time to secure it. "You could see the flames shooting about 30 feet above the treeline way down the road when I first got there," he said. "But 10 minutes later it was on top of us. It was moving so fast."
Snyder and his family were among more than 100 who sought refuge at the Red Cross shelter housed at Magnolia High School where classes had been canceled Tuesday.
One injury reported
So far the shelter manager, Lain Causey, said the only fire-related injury there was an 80-year-old female evacuee who was rushed to the hospital in respiratory distress from heavy black smoke.
Boo Henderson, the farmer's market coordinator for Magnolia, showed up there Tuesday with her husband who was cradling their dog, Jazzy, in his arms.
But they were forced to make such a hasty departure that 50 chickens, 20 goats, two rabbits and a pair of peacocks had to be left behind on their 4-acre spread in the Magnolia West subdivision.
"We had just located a trailer and a place to put them when we heard the sirens and loud speaker ordering us to get out now," she said. "We thought we were safe until the fire jumped across FM 1774 and headed toward us."
Inside Magnolia West High School, weary groups of soot-covered firefighters tried to unwind over plates of brisket in the cafeteria.
They started arriving Monday from Crosby, Tarkenton, Galveston and other volunteer fire departments, including units from Harris County communities. By the time they sat down to eat, some of the firefighters had been up for 36 hours or more.
"It brings tears to your eyes to try to save some of these homes and then have to give up and back away," said Crosby VFD assistant chief Richard Clark, 48.
Fickle tornado
Firefighters described a fast-moving, unpredictable wall of fire that behaved like a fickle tornado, leaving entire streets untouched and then engulfing a group of homes nearby.
"When we got here this morning, it looked like a bomb had gone off," said Isaac Pinson, 31, who described acre upon acre of scorched farmland and pockets of rural families at the end of a road desperately trying to save their homes with buckets of water. They had refused to evacuate, he said.
"The wind is what's doing it," he added.
 
Chronicle reporter Pete Holley contributed to this report.
 
cindy.horswell@chron.com







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Displaced and uncertain Magnolia residents given little time to flee wildfire
 A large raging wildfire has burned thousands of acres in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties, forced hundreds of residents to flee and shut down several roads and schools.  Ken Snyder's eyes teared up as he recalled grabbing important papers and "baby stuff" for his newborn son Monday as he...































Latest Slideshows








 2011 NFL cheerleaders


 Texans 34, Colts 7


 Prairie View 37, TSU 34



 
 











Latest Houston and Texas Headlines














			
				Family can't make sense of killings of 2 brothers





			
	Triple-digit temps return to Houston





			
	Houston ballot bodes shake-up on council





			
	Going home still a dream for some fire evacuees





			
	Senior's city-built home lacked insulation





 











Latest News










Andrew Richardson
					

Family can't make sense of killings of 2 brothers
The weight of the scene was too much for relatives to handle as they stood in front of a Spring home Sunday where a 23-year-old stabbed...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Concert-style "Finian" goes for the gold - and gets it
Charles Krohn as Finian, left, and Mark Ivy as Og, fight over a pot of gold.: Gary Fountain

Enchantment is in short supply these days...


 

 







Latest Sports











Hunting vehicles are the workhorses for the outdoors
The No. 2 way to get into a long-winded discussion around the campfire, next to the best rifle cartridge, is to talk about the...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













