Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “New Orleans”
        
                                



Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





New Orleans Relieved to Find Lee Is No Katrina but Mayor Urges Residents to Remain Vigilant 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:50 PM





Cecil Flemming tries to maneuver his wheelchair through the waters on the Mandeville, La. lakefront of Lake Pontchartrain after waters crashed over the seawall from Tropical Storm Lee, on Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011. (AP Photo/The Times-Picayune, Ted Jackson)New Orleans suffered no "major hit" from Tropical Storm Lee but residents should remain vigilant, Mayor Mitch Landrieu said on Sunday.


            Continue reading New Orleans Relieved to Find Lee Is No Katrina but Mayor Urges Residents to Remain Vigilant .
        





Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:46 PM





Waves in Lake Pontchartrain from tropical storm Lee crash into a seawall in the West End section of New Orleans on Saturday, Sept. 3. Heavy rain and strong wind gusts from Lee knocked out power to thousands in south Louisiana and Mississippi. (Newscom)Tropical Storm Lee dumped more than a foot of rain in New Orleans and spun off tornadoes elsewhere Sunday as its center came ashore in a slow crawl north that raised fears of inland flash flooding in the Deep South and beyond.


            Continue reading Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland .
        





Tropical Storm Lee: Louisiana Pounded with Rain


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011 11:05 AM





Heavy rain clouds from approaching Tropical Storm Lee form over the skyline of New Orleans at dusk Friday. (Gerald Herbert / Associated Press / September 2, 2011)Thick sheets of rain from Tropical Storm Lee pounded southern Louisiana on Saturday morning as the storm continued to loiter just offshore in the Gulf of Mexico, gathering strength with sustained winds  approaching 60 mph.


            Continue reading Tropical Storm Lee: Louisiana Pounded with Rain.
        





Tropical Storm Lee: Flooding in New Orleans as Other Areas Evacuated 


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011 11:04 AM





Water levels are up in the London Avenue Canal, Saturday, September 3, 2011, as seen from Robert E. Lee Boulevard, the site of the floodwall breech during Hurricane Katrina. (John McCusker/The Times-Picayune)New Orleans area residents awoke Saturday to multiple reports of tornadoes and flash flooding spawned by strong thunderstorms embedded in squall lines on the eastern perimeter of Tropical Storm Lee.


            Continue reading Tropical Storm Lee: Flooding in New Orleans as Other Areas Evacuated .
        





Tropical Storm Lee


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011  8:52 AM





CLICK HERE TO VIEW SLIDESHOW ON FLICKR






Rain from Tropical Storm Lee Hits Land, Gulf Coast States Brace for Flooding


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011  4:59 AM





A surfer waits with his board to surf on Thursday, Sept. 1, in Dauphin Island, Ala. (G.M. Andrews/Mobile Press-Register/AP)Heavy rains from Tropical Storm Lee were falling in southern Louisiana and pelting the Gulf Coast on Saturday as the storm's center trudged slowly toward land, where businesses were already beginning to suffer on what would normally be a bustling holiday weekend. The storm could bring as many as 20 inches of rain to some areas.


            Continue reading Rain from Tropical Storm Lee Hits Land, Gulf Coast States Brace for Flooding.
        





20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011 11:42 AM





This satellite image taken by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration early Friday shows the tropical depression advancing on the U.S. southeastern states. The storm is expected to intensify to tropical storm strength before making landfall in Louisiana on Saturday. (NOAA/AP)A tropical depression packing walloping rains for the Gulf Coast was spreading its rain bands Friday over southern Louisiana ahead of what forecasters warned could be a drenched Labor Day weekend across the region, with up to 20 inches in places.


            Continue reading 20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast.
        





Police Say School Shooting Plot in New Orleans was Foiled 


    
                By UCN on August  6, 2011  4:32 AM






Sheriff: School Shooting Plot in La. FoiledAuthorities in suburban New Orleans say they uncovered a plot by three teens for "an incredible and devastating" attack at their high school on the first day of classes, with plans for two specific targets, indiscriminate shooting and suicide. (Aug. 5)Authorities in suburban New Orleans said Friday they uncovered three teenagers' plot to shoot fellow high school students on campus during the first day of classes.


            Continue reading Police Say School Shooting Plot in New Orleans was Foiled .
        





Jury Convicts 5 Officers in Post-Katrina Shootings 


    
                By UCN on August  5, 2011  1:24 PM





A federal jury on Friday convicted five current or former police officers in the deadly shootings on a New Orleans bridge after Hurricane Katrina.


            Continue reading Jury Convicts 5 Officers in Post-Katrina Shootings .
        





Pastor Fred Luter, Jr. on Race, Preaching, and New Orleans with TIME Magazine 


    
                By UCN on June 20, 2011  6:33 PM





Pastor Fred Luter, of New Orleans, acknowledges the crowd at the Southern Baptist Convention prior to to being elected as the first African-American vice president of the organization, Tuesday, June 14, 2011, in Phoenix.Pastor Fred Luter, Jr. rebuilt his home church Franklin Avenue Baptist after Hurricane Katrina. 


            Continue reading Pastor Fred Luter, Jr. on Race, Preaching, and New Orleans with TIME Magazine .
        





Fred Luter of New Orleans Elected First Vice President of Southern Baptists


    
                By UCN on June 15, 2011  8:25 AM





Fred Luter, pastor of Franklin Avenue Baptist Church in New Orleans, La., shares how God has opened doors of ministry since Hurricane Katrina hit the city in 2005. His comments came June 14 during the New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary report given by seminary president Chuck Kelley during the afternoon session of the first day of the two-day Southern Baptist Convention at the Phoenix Convention Center in Phoenix, Ariz. Photo by Kent HarvilleMembers of the Southern Baptist Convention elected an African-American pastor to its No. 2 position for the first time on Tuesday, signifying an effort to diversify its leadership and flock at a time of declines in overall membership and church attendance.


            Continue reading Fred Luter of New Orleans Elected First Vice President of Southern Baptists.
        





Rural Louisiana Flooded to Save New Orleans 


    
                By UCN on May 14, 2011  5:24 PM






Raw Video: Floodgate Opens, Diverting Miss.The Army Corps of Engineers is releasing water from a spillway along the rising Mississippi River in Louisiana, diverting water into the countryside in hopes of avoiding a potentially bigger disaster in heavily populated areas downstream. (May 14)Spillway on Mississippi River opened for first time in 38 years as Army Corps hopes to avoid another Katrina-like disaster


            Continue reading Rural Louisiana Flooded to Save New Orleans .
        






Smaller New Orleans After Katrina, Census Shows 


    
                By UCN on February  4, 2011  7:15 AM





When Hurricane Katrina hit and the murky waters rushed through levee breaches, even the facts were drowned.


            Continue reading Smaller New Orleans After Katrina, Census Shows .
        






In New Orleans, Black Churches Face a Long, Slow Return  


    
                By UCN on August 30, 2010  8:34 AM





His rebuilt home replaced the sanctuary Mr. Duplessis couldn't afford to replace, which had stood on Flood Street.Five minutes past 9:30 a.m. on a Sunday this month, which is to say five minutes past the time the worship service was supposed to start, Shantell Henley pushed open the front door of her pastor's house in the Lower Ninth Ward. 


            Continue reading In New Orleans, Black Churches Face a Long, Slow Return  .
        






For Spike Lee, a New Requiem for New Orleans  


    
                By UCN on August 26, 2010  5:35 AM





Spike Lee on the set of his HBO movie, "If God is Willing and the Creek Don't Rise."Four years ago Spike Lee took his cameras to New Orleans to document the disaster wrought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, as told by the people still dealing with its calamitous effects. 


            Continue reading For Spike Lee, a New Requiem for New Orleans  .
        






Gospel Greats Take Center Stage at Essence Music Festival  


    
                By UCN on July  7, 2010  7:58 AM





Spirit-filled worship rang through New Orleans' convention center Sunday as the Essence Music Festival neared the end of its three-day run of informational-heavy workshops and celebrity appearances.


            Continue reading Gospel Greats Take Center Stage at Essence Music Festival  .
        






Laura Bush Opens Up About Car Accident and Much More In Her New Book  


    
                By UCN on April 29, 2010  3:51 AM





Former U.S. President George W. Bush and Mrs. Laura Bush pose with daughters Jenna (R) and Barbara (L) prior to the wedding of Jenna and Henry Hager May 10, 2008 near Crawford, Texas.Laura Bush has finally opened up publicly about the mysterious car accident she had when she was 17, a crash that claimed the life of a high school friend on a dark country road in Midland, Tex.


            Continue reading Laura Bush Opens Up About Car Accident and Much More In Her New Book  .
        






New Orleans Elects First White Mayor in 32 Years  


    
                By UCN on February  7, 2010 10:55 AM





Landrieu lost an earlier bid to unseat Nagin in 2006.New Orleans has elected its first white mayor in 32 years, ushering in hopes of a new era in a city still trying to rebuild five years after Hurricane Katrina.


            Continue reading New Orleans Elects First White Mayor in 32 Years  .
        






Kurt Warner to Reveal if he's Ending Stirring Career


    
                By UCN on January 29, 2010  8:54 AM





Kurt Warner was set to end all the speculation with a news conference on Friday to announce whether he is calling an end to his stirring NFL career.
        

            Continue reading Kurt Warner to Reveal if he's Ending Stirring Career.
        





                                    1 2  Next >












 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










