ShoppingBlog.com - powered by FeedBurner
&




ShoppingBlog.com

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Serena Williams Gets Into Dispute With Chair Umpire, Loses U.S. Open to Samantha Stosur


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 21:15:00 EST
Serena Williams had a very bad
day at the U.S. Open. She 
got into a dispute with the line 
umpire, and went on to lose the final 
to Australian player Samantha Stosur. 
Serena had cracked her racket and 
lost twelve points in a row, when she 
hit a strong forehand to Stosur. Before
Stosur got a chance to hit the ball, 
Serena yelled "Come on!" That is a 
major violation of the
intentional hindrance rule. It's similar to 
 an unsportsmanlike conduct call. 


The chair umpire Eva Asderaki 
gave the point to Stosur, but Serena 
argued with her. Apparently Serena mistakenly thought
Eva was the same umpire who ruled against
her in 2009, Louise Engzell. The two
umpires wear similar pony tails and 
speak with accents. The crowd was
with Serena and thought the ruling was unfair. It wasn't like a full-on John McEnroe moment, or anything, but Serena has gotten into disputes with umpires before and that doesn't help her. 
 
Sosur herself said she didn't think Serena
was intentionally trying to hinder her 
play. But that was the call, and Serena
went on to lose the U.S. Open. She seemed a bit rattled, and was not playing her best.

 ESPN's Prim Siripipat and Brad Gilbert 
discuss Serena's very bad
day at Flushing Meadows. Take a look:




You can see the point in question, and Serena's dispute with the chair umpire here.


Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt Walk the Red Carpet for the Premiere of Moneyball


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 20:00:00 EST
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt walked the red carpet at the Toronto International Film Festival for the premiere of Brad's new movie, Moneyball. 
Angelina wore a black silk gown by Vivienne Westwood. She accessorized with a gold Louis Vuitton handbag that was attached to her wrist with a gold chain and a gold, spiked handcuff. There's a good shot of the handbag starting at the 1:01 mark. 
 
Brad was asked what he 
loved about co-star
Jonah Hill. Brad said
that he loves that Jonah 
is such a good dancer, and listed a good many other attributes as well. Take a look:





You can see some close-up photos of Angelina and the kinky handbag at the Daily Mail.

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Jessica Alba at the 2011 ALMA Awards


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 19:22:00 EST


Jessica Alba looked lovely as she walked the red carpet at the 2011 Alma Awards last night. Jessica wore a strapless black, white and grey print gown by Michael Kors. Jessica bucked the giant earring trend; she didn't wear earrings. Instead, she accessorized with a spiked and beaded choker. 

Jessica won the award for Favorite Movie Actress - Drama/Adventure for her work in Machete. You can see a complete list of the 2011 ALMA winners here.



Photos: Robson Muzel/Chris Haston/NBC

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Photos: Eva Longoria's ALMA Awards Outfits


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 18:23:00 EST


The ALMA Awards were a busy night for co-host Eva Longoria. Eva made several wardrobe changes as co-host of the awards show. Eva also wore a coral mermaid gown for the red carpet, which you can see here. George Lopez shared hosting duties with Eva. You can see a list of the night's winners here.



Photos: Chris Haston/NBC

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Eva Longoria on the 2011 Alma Awards Red Carpet


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 16:25:00 EST


Eva Longoria looked lovely on the red carpet at the ALMA Awards
last night. Eva was a co-host of the event. For the red carpet, Eva wore
a gorgeous coral mermaid gown, which featured an extremely low cut strapless bodice. At one point, she was just millimeters away from a major wardrobe malfunction. Someone clearly sent out a memo for the evening: Eva, like
everyone else, wore huge drop earrings.



Photos: Robson Muzel/NBC

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Naya Rivera Wins Favorite Female Music Artist at ALMA Awards


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 16:00:00 EST


Naya Rivera won the award for Favorite Female Music Artist this year at the 2011 ALMA Awards. She was up for two awards, but lost in the TV Actress: Comedy category to Demi Lovato. 

Naya wore a form-fitting strapless, sequinned black and gold gown. She accessorized with the go-to item of the evening: gigantic drop earrings.  

Photo: Chris Haston/NBC

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Demi Lovato on 2011 ALMA Awards Red Carpet


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 14:50:00 EST


Demi Lovato looked stunning at the ALMA Awards in Los Angeles last night.
She wore a blush gown by Maria Lucia Hohan which featured a deep v-neck
and a wrapped bodice. Demi accessorized with large pink dangle earrings.

Demi won the award for Favorite TV Actress for her role as Sonny in Sonny With A Chance. You can see a complete list of the ALMA winners here.

Photo: Trae Patton/NBC

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




President and Mrs. Obama, President and Mrs. Bush Tour 9/11 Memorial


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 13:45:00 EST


President Barack Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, former President George W. Bush and former First Lady Laura Bush  walked together along the western edge of the North Pool at the National September 11 Memorial in New York, New York, this morning. They toured the memorial before the commemoration ceremony at Ground Zero on the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. The memorial has two large reflecting pools. The names of the victims are etched in bronze. Here is raw video of their visit to the memorial, where President Obama said a silent prayer.




Photo: Samantha Appleton/White House

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Video: Paul Simon Performs The Sound of Silence at 9/11 Memorial


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 13:00:00 EST
Paul Simon performed a very moving acoustic performance of the Simon and Garfunkel song "The Sound of Silence" during the memorial ceremonies at Ground Zero today. The ceremony commemorated those who died in the 9/11 attacks ten years ago. Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall traveled to New York City for the event. Take a look:




Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Eva Longoria, Gloria Estefan and Edward James Olmos Walk the Red Carpet at the ALMA Awards


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 12:00:00 EST
The ALMA Awards were held last night at the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium in Los Angeles. Latinos from all parts of the entertainment industry attended the event. Stars Eva Longoria, Gloria Estefan, Edward James Olmos and James Pena responded to questions about today's slow economy and whether they had ever struggled financially.

Eva, who co-hosted the evening, says she's been unemployed many times
in her life. Gloria says she remembers the 70s
and having to wait in line for  gas.
But it was Edward James Olmos who had the most moving answer.
Edward says he's never been without
work. But he has been without money, saying
"And without money, it's very
difficult to survive. You can't
eat, there's no place to stay a
and you have to ask for help." He says having no money is very
 hard on the self-worth and self-respect
of a human being.

Michael Pena said he grew up in
a family where his father was forced
to retire when he didn't want to and
 he himself always worked two jobs to make
ends meet. Take a look:





Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Contagion Wins Weekend Box Office


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 11:00:00 EST


The star-ladden disease thriller Contagion topped this weekend's box office. Contagion made $23.1 million and prevented The Help from landing its fourth consecutive week at nomber one. The Help finished second and made another $8.6 million. Warrior, a boxing drama with Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy, had a weak opening. It finished third and made just $5.6 million.

Warrior was followed by The Debt and Colombiana. You can see the weekend box office chart here.

Photo: Claudette Barius/Warner Bros.

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Gwyneth Paltrow Talks About Her Unusual September 11th Moment


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:35:00 EST
Gwyneth talks about a moment she remembers from September 11th, where she unintentionally delayed a woman in the street. This led to the woman missing her train and not making it to work at the World Trade Center.

Gwyneth says, "A girl was jaywalking across the street and we kind of both stopped at the same time and then waited a really long time and then thought the other one was going so we both went and stopped. We did this sort of stop-start thing that lasted for quite a while and then we just started laughing. The she went on her way and I went on my way."

"Ten years later I got a letter from saying that she had been late for work - and we had that thing - and she went down to the Christopher Street station to  catch her train to go down to the World Train Center where she worked on the 77th floor of the south tower... and the train was just pulling out. Had we not had that interaction she feels like her life would have a taken a much differnet course."

Gwyneth says the woman called it her Sliding Doors, relating it to a film with a parallel universe plot that Gwyneth starred in. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Sony Relaunching Playstation Home as Social Gaming Platform


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 23:00:00 EST


Sony first released PlayStation Home in 2008 when virtual worlds were thought to be the next big thing. Virtual worlds did not take off as quickly as expected, but the Home service has remained open and has been slowly gaining users, features and games over the past couple years. Sony is now planning a complete redesign of Home to transform it into a social game platform.

Coming in Fall 2011, this new core experience for PlayStation Home features a "hub and districts" design that will help you find games, people and places that fit your favorite game genres. The design features a new Hub that integrates games, quests, community events, and user-generated content, while providing you with additional navigation, shopping, socialization and entertainment options.

Home will have four distinct distrcits: Action District, Sportswalk, Adventure District and Pier Park.

Photo: Sony

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Obamas Help Out at D.C. Central Kitchen


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 22:44:00 EST
President Obama and his family spent time today helping out at a soup kitchen in D.C., called D.C. Central Kitchen. The Obamas helped prepare chicken sausage combo meals for the needy. President Obama says the soup kitchen not only helps feed 5,000 families a day, but it also provides on the job training for people who need work. President Obama says it is an "incredible program." Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Agyness Deyn Reveals Her First Heartbreak for Dr. Martens


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 22:41:00 EST


Agyness Dean stars in a new campaign for Dr. Martens. In the campaign, called First and Forever, Agyness reveals her first heartbreak. Agyness says, "It's gut wrenching." She also says, "You have to try to feel whole yourself again." Take a look:




Photo: Dr. Martens

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Julianne Moore is the Face of Talbots Fall 2011 Campaign


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 22:35:00 EST


Julianne Moore is back as the face of Talbots for the brand's Fall 2011 campaign. Michael Smaldone, chief creative officer for Talbots, says Julianne is "a classic beauty who is an extraordinary actress, mother, author and a true modern woman."

Julianne was also the face of Talbot's Spring 2011 campaign. You can see a video from the Spring campaign Here.



(via InStyle)

Photo: Talbots

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




The Cheesecake Factory Rolls Out Skinnylicious Menu


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 22:00:00 EST


The Cheesecake Factory has rolled out a new menu it is called Skinnylicious. The restaurant says the menu contains lower calorie options. The Skinnylicious burgers are pictured above.

David Overton, Founder of The Cheesecake Factory, said in a statement, "We wanted to create a menu that delivers an exceptional dining experience to our calorie-conscious guests, without compromising the delicious taste that people have come to expect from The Cheesecake Factory."

The new menu will include 50 items. The restaurant says the Small Plates & Appetizers and fresh-baked flatbreads categories feature dishes under 490 calories, while the entree salads and main courses are all served with 590 calories or less. You can the Skinnylicious menu here on The Cheesecake Factory's website.

Photo: The Cheesecake Factory

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Christina Aguilera Stars in New PSA for Yum Brands World Hunger Relief  Effort


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 21:45:00 EST


Christina Aguilera stars in a new PSA for Yum Brands World Hunger Relief effort, which will launch this fall in KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell restaurants. The effort will raise money for the UN World Food Programme (WFP) to feed people in urgent need of food assitance. Drought coupled with high food prices and conflict in the Horn of Africa is affecting more than 13 million people. Take a look:



Photo: Yum Brands

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Demi Moore Tweets Half Naked Photo of Herself


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 21:33:00 EST


Demi Moore shared this photograph of herself as she was getting out of the shower. Demi's bare back is visible in the photograph. Demi tweeted, "remember.....you've got your own back." She does have a great back.

Photo: Demi Moore, via twitpic

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




9/11 Memorial Reflecting Pools Turned On


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 21:00:00 EST
Chris Wragge from CBS News reports that a reflecting pool at Ground Zero has been turned on. Waterfalls drain into the reflecting pools. The site is lined with hundreds of oak trees. Wragge says the waterfalls are the largest man-made waterfalls in North America. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Video: Rebecca Taylor's Japanese Inspired Spring 2012 Collection


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 20:35:00 EST
Rebecca Taylor presented her spring 2012 ready to wear collection at New York Fashion Week. Rebecca said she was inspired by Japanese prints and fabrics. She says that one of her very best customers died in the Japanese tsunami,  and it has been on her mind a great deal -- even though it has fallen out of the news lately.

Before the show, the AP asked attendees their thoughts as the anniversary of 9/11. Ashley Tisdale says she's from New Jersey and spent a great deal of time in New York, and on that day she likes to spend it with close family. Sophia Bush expressed her feelings of sadness over the anniversary, and said she felt a bit uplifted when she went to ground zero to see the progress on the memorial. Take a look:




Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Lil Wayne's Latest Album Sells 964,000 Copies in its First Week


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 20:00:00 EST
Lil Wayne's Tha Carter IV album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 this past week. Lil Wayne sold an impressive 964,000 units. This gave him the second biggest debut of the year. Lady Gaga's Born This Way was higher with 1.11 million units sold.

Lil Wayne was followed by the Red Hot Chili Peppers' new album, I'm With You, opened in 2nd and sold 229,000 copies. The album was helped by a great music video for "The Adventures Of Rain Dance Maggie."

The Chili Peppers with followed by Adele's 21, Jay-Z and Kanye West's the Throne and David Guetta's Nothing But The Beat.

Photo: Cash Money Records

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Sad Avril Lavigne Cries in Depressing Wish You Were Here Music Video


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 18:44:00 EST
Avril Lavigne has released an emotional music video for her song, "Wish You Were Here." The song is from Avril's album, Goodbye Lullaby. An angst-ridden Avril is teary eyed in the video. She is in a room in a dirty looking house. The room also has a tub, which Avril submerges herself in. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Video: Former Presidents Bush and Clinton Praise Passengers of Flight 93


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 18:00:00 EST
In these clips, former President George W. Bush  and former President Bill Clinton praised the 40 passengers and crew who fought back against their hijackers aboard Flight 93 on September 11th. There will be a memorial to the passengers, and the ceremony today near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, dedicated the first phase. Both presidents were quite somber in their speeches, which put the attacks in context ten years later. President Bush called for unity in light of the tragedy, saying "Americans have never been defined by our disagreements.
Whatever challenges we face in the future, we must never allow our differences to harden into divisions." Take a look:





President Clinton was quite moved by Bush's speech. He then took the podium to talk of the bravery of the passengers and how he hoped it would be remembered far into the future. At the end of the speech, he said he just found out the memorial is $10 million short in funding. He said he and Republican Speaker of the House John Boehner have agreed to do a bipartisan fundraising event. Take a look:





Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Vice President Joe Biden Praises the Bravery of Passengers of Flight 93


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 16:00:00 EST
Vice President Joe Biden was joined by former presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush for a ceremony honoring the passengers of Flight 93, who bravely fought back against the highjackers on September 11th. More than 4,000 people came to the ceremony: hundreds of victims' relatives made the trip for the day.

In this clip, Vice President Joe Biden commemorated the passengers' bravery and sacrifice. He said that the passengers
 on Flight 93 did not ask to fight a war.
But when they heard about the other attacks
on 9/11 they knew it was more than a
highjacking. They acted as citizen
patriots...they stood up and they
stood their ground. Take a look:





Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




George W. Bush Lays Wreath at Pentagon


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 15:16:00 EST
Former President George Bush laid a wreath at the Pentagon today. Laura Bush stood next to President Bush as he carried the wreath to the platform, which stands in front of a 9/11 memorial stone embedded in the wall outside Corridor 4. Tomorrow is the tenth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. President Bush will be joining President Obama in New York tomorrow. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Denver Stadium Officially Sports Authority Field at Mile High Stadium


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 15:00:00 EST


Denver's Mile High Stadium has officially been renamed Sports Authority Field at Mile High Stadium. Sports Authority is a Denver-based sporting goods retailer with 1,700 employees in Colorado.

A performance by the Stampede Drum Corps kicked off the event, with the new Sports Authority Field at Mile High Stadium sign in the background. The Denver Broncos regular season opens Monday, September 12th against the Oakland Raiders at 8:15pm MDT. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Transformers: Dark of the Moon to be Released on DVD/Blu-ray on September 30


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 14:45:00 EST


Transformers: Dark of the Moon is set for a quick arrival on DVD/Blu-ray following its premiere in theaters earlier the summer. The film will debut in a Blu-ray/DVD Combo with a digital copy and on standard DVD on Friday, September 30, 2011. A delxue Blu-Ray and DVD release, as well as a Blu-ray 3D, will be released at a later date.

Director Michael Bay says, "For fans who can't wait, the Blu-ray release in September will deliver an awesome ride with the movie in stunning 1080p high definition and a 7.1 Dolby TrueHD soundtrack that was personally overseen by our phenomenal supervising sound mixer just for the Blu-ray.  As you know, we put a lot of effort into the 3D experience for the theatrical release and I want to make sure we get it right for home viewing-and that process takes time.  So stay tuned for an even more incredible release that will include the film on Blu-ray 3D and loads of bonus features."

The Blu-ray version can be pre-ordered here on Amazon.com for a discount.

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Company Launches Beer Targeted at Women


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 14:23:00 EST


Time reports that a Wisonsin brewery has launched a beer, named Chick Beer, which is targeted at women. The company claims Chick Beer is "the only American beer created just for women."

Chick Bear also has charitable component. Chick Beer has pledged to donate 5% of its net profits to charities that empower women, primarily in the communities where Chick Beer is sold.

The beer has 97 calories and 3.5 carbs. You can learn more about it here.

Photo: Chick Beer

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Dancing Fingers Showcase Chanel's Fall Nail Polish Shades


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 14:00:00 EST
To showcase its current nail polish collection, Chanel released a short film called Shade Parade, in which fingers dance, high kick and show off some fabulous fall polish colors. It's cute, it's clever, and is most likely the largest collection of hand models ever gathered together in one room. These are not hands that ever wash dishes, clean the house or type for hours and hours on end. Take a look:




Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Best Buy Launches Third Party Marketplace


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 13:00:00 EST
Forbes reports that Best Buy is taking aim at Amazon.com and Ebay  by creating a new third-party marketplace. The marketplace allows third parties to sell their wares under the Best Buy name and Best Buy takes a cut of the proceeds. Sellers on the site include
ANT Online,  BeachAudio.com, Buy.com, Mambate, SF Planet and Wayfair.

The marketplace allows Best Buy to sell a wider array of products than it does on its own website. Third party marketplaces are all the rage now. Forbes says Wal-Mart and Sears have already launched similar platforms. Best Buy's marketplace is linked right off its homepage,
BestBuy.com.


Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Tablets in the $200 to $300 Range Expected This Fall


Posted: Fri, 9 Sep 2011 22:33:00 EST
It will be a while before top of the line tablets get as cheap as they were during HP's $99 TouchPad firesale. The HP TouchPad still costs about $300 to make according to iSuppli. Apple's iPad 2 costs about $326 to make. The costs to manufacture tablets will trend downward as demand increases, but it won't happen overnight.

However, the L.A. Times is reporting that analysts are predicting some tablet prices in the $200 or $300 range this holiday season.

Amazon.com is expected to release a $250 tablet in late November. The L.A Times article also says that Lenovo is going to debut a $199 tablet at the end of September. There are also likely to be many tablet deals. Many manufactures have tablets that have not sold well during the year and they may discount them during the holidays.

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




DJ Pauly D Visited Kardashian's Boutique on Fashion's Night Out


Posted: Fri, 9 Sep 2011 22:00:00 EST
Kim Kardashian shared this photograph of DJ Pauly D at her store on Fashion's Night Out. Kim tweted, "Fist Pumping & Fashion with @DjPaulyD !!!."



Another photo showed large crowds outside the Dash store.

The New York Post reports that the store attracted such large crowds that police officers ordered the Kardashian sisters to close the store.

Photo: Kim Kardashian, via twitpic

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Ebay Launches Star Wars Experience


Posted: Fri, 9 Sep 2011 21:44:00 EST
Ebay has partnered with Lucasfilm Ltd. and Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment for a Star Wars destination page on eBay. The Star Wars eBay page can be found at eBay.com/starwars. The site was launched to tie-in with the release of the Star Wars saga on Blu-ray.

The site includes daily trivia, quizzes and sneak peeks from the Blu-ray. It also includes auctions of rare Star Wars merchandise and VIP experiences. All proceeds from the auctions will benefit Stand Up To Cancer. Auctions begin on September 16th at 12:00 PM EDT and continue until 12:00 PM EDT on September 23 in the US, UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain.

You can view a large image of the infographic below here.



Photo: Photo: Businesswire/Lucasfilm Ltd.

Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Power Back on for Most Residents Following Arizona, California Blackout


Posted: Fri, 9 Sep 2011 21:25:00 EST
Power is back on for most residents after a major blackout left Southern California, Arizona and Mexico residents in the dark for 12 hours or more.
Signon San Diego reports that there are lingering problems from the blackout, such as sewage spilled into the Los Penasquitos Lagoon. There are also economic losses because businesses and restaurants were closed during the blackout. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   




Port Deposit, Maryland Underwater After Tropical Rains


Posted: Fri, 9 Sep 2011 21:00:00 EST
The town of Port Deposit, Maryland is still under water following flooding tropical rains from Hurricane Irene and then Tropical Storm Lee's remnants. Mud and debris can be seen in streets where the water has receded. People are paddling through town in areas that still have several feet of water. Take a look:



Permalink | Recent Headlines | Facebook | Our News Feeds

   






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


