Comment posting guidelines | Yahoo! News Help

 Skip to search.      New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Help              Search   Search Web       




 

  

 

Yahoo! News Help Topics


 

Contact Us




 
 










  


 














Yahoo! recommends updating your browser.Upgrade now to safer IE for Yahoo!.









Yahoo! recommends updating your browser.Upgrade now to Firefox for Yahoo!.






 




Yahoo! News > Yahoo! News > Comments
 


Comment posting guidelines


Last Updated: October 19, 2010


		Text Size: 
		A
A
A

 





Save to My Help
Save this article to My Help for easy reference.  You can visit the article at any time from any computer.
Save
Cancel











Replace an article
You have reached the maximum number of saved articles.  Your oldest saved article will be replaced with the new one.
Replace
Cancel








Comments let you start discussions, ask questions, and share your opinions. Here are a few things to consider as you post:


Be considerate and respectful of your fellow posters.
Do not use profanity, vulgarity, obscenities, or inappropriate language.
Do not harass, abuse, or threaten another's personal safety or property, make false statements, defame, or impersonate someone else.
No commercial promotions are allowed.
This is a public forum. Do not post personal information like your phone number, mailing addresses, bank account number, credit card information or social security numbers.
No HTML or hyperlinks allowed.


Yahoo! reserves the right to refuse or remove any comment that does not comply with these guidelines or the Yahoo! Terms of Service and to terminate your Yahoo! account (including email) for a violation. Yahoo! is not responsible or liable in any way for comments posted by its users.














Display in new window







 

Print

 


Share this page

DeliciousTwitterMyspaceDiggStumbleUponFacebook












Was this information helpful?  
   
Thank you!


Thank you!  Your rating was submitted. 

Would you have contacted a Yahoo! customer care agent if this didn’t answer your question?
 Yes    No

 
 
Thank you for your feedback. 

Thank you!  Your rating was submitted.

Please tell us why you didn’t find this helpful.


I tried the solution and it didn’t work
It didn’t answer my question
It wasn’t detailed enough
It doesn’t apply to my question
It was hard to understand
The feature I want is not yet available or it goes against Yahoo! policy

The information you provide will be used to make this information more helpful in the future. We will not respond directly to your comments.








 

 









My Help
Forgot your ID or password?
Sign In
Sign in to see your account information saved articles and more.




Recent Searches (0)


							No recent searches
						
Clear all

 
Recently Viewed (1)



Comment posting guidelines


Clear all

 







Top Questions



What's New in Yahoo! News
Comment posting guidelines
Why am I receiving the Y! Update Email
I posted a comment and can't find it. Where is it?
How to report an offensive comment







Related Links



Sign-in and Registration Help
Marketing Preferences Help
Account Security
Privacy Policy






















  












