As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory. - Parenting on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Parenting
Monday, September 12, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: yahoo! mother boardback to schoolfall fashion




As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory.



editor


by Piper Weiss, Shine Staff, on Fri Sep 9, 2011 1:05pm PDT


435 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse










The family in 2009, before Jon left the show. (Courtesy of TLC)

Their television career began in the womb.
Now 7 years old, the Gosselin sextuplets have had a longer run on
TV than the original Brady Bunch kids. Their childhood,
however, was unscripted. 
After TLC airs the Monday night finale of the series,

"Kate Plus 8" (formerly "Jon and Kate
Plus 8" until season 6) reality TV's most famous
siblings—Alexis, Hannah, Aaden, Collin, Leah and Joel— and their
10-year-old twin twin sisters— Cara and Mady— will finally resume
their life off camera. Or will they?
After news of her show’s cancellation, mom Kate Gosselin
tweeted about her 10-year-old daughter
Mady’s desire to stay in the spotlight: “Aww that Mady… So well
spoken! Wants to do MORE TV!!! Disney anyone? Lol”

Related: Jon Gosselin's serious relationship
crime
Regardless of plans for her brood, Kate wants to keep her own TV
career afloat. She’ll be guest-hosting on CBS's daytime show
“The Talk” next. That means her identity as a multiples mom will
keep her children leashed into the public domain, like it or
not.
“I want to stay in TV because I feel comfortable there, it’s an
exciting life,” Kate said in an interview with People Magazine last week.
But exciting isn’t the first word that comes to mind looking
back on her family's televised travails. What began in
2006 as a one-hour special on her pregnancy soon mushroomed into an
epic televised destruction of a marriage. The show turned from
wacky parenting challenges to a story of a love-less relationship
and one couple’s competition for the spotlight. Kate promoted her
books, went on speaking tours, and got a "Dancing with the Stars"
makeover. Meanwhile, Jon’s mid-life crisis crash-intersected
with reality fame, chock full of quick and dirty tabloid-centric
relationships (including a bromance with Michael Lohan) and some
very public legal battles with his ex.  
The eight Gosselin kids were casualties. Rumors of behavioral
problems were followed by reports of school expulsions. Alexis and Collin were
removed from their private school and educated at home for a stint
before returning. But they weren’t always welcome. 
The parents of Gosselin classmates complained about their
excessive security presence. A Facebook group called "Jon and
Kate Plus 8 Ruined Our School" was launched. "If you
attend Lancaster Country Day School, and you feel that unnecessary
changes have been made to accommodate the Gosselin Children, please
join," reads the description. 
If parents can be cruel, so can their kids. How will their
classmates treat the in-house celebrities whose potty training
exploits remain archived on YouTube? Even without the cameras, is
it too late for these kids to live a normal life?
While Jon took to rumorfix.com this past week to say he'd
welcome his kids' return to normalcy, mom Kate told People
she's worried about keeping her kids' home and school in
tact without their TV income. Equally concerned are her kids.

Related: Jon Gosselin's freaky fashion
"The scary thing is when kids are used to being providers
for their family," says Dr. Hilary Levey-Friedman, a Harvard
sociologist who's written extensively about reality TV families.
"The Gosselin kids shouldn’t be aware that their show pays for
their school, they shouldn't even have to worry about
that."
The money, which Kate admits to be a driving force her
family's TV career, can have long-term consequences, both good
and bad.  
 

Kate, in New York in August, hopes to stay a fixture on TV. (Ray Tamarra/Getty Images)

After a 2010 investigation into the show's child labor
practices, the Pennsylvania Bureau of Labor Law Compliance mandated
that 15 percent of the children’s proceeds from the show be placed
in a trust fund for their future. It could afford them the kind of
educational opportunities large families on fixed incomes don't
have access to. But it could also create a habit-forming need for
attention.

"The money focus is one that's been tied to long-term
psychological damage for child stars raised supporting their
families. Even studies of kids who grew up in the Depression have
shown that a stressful relationship with spending money in
childhood can stay with you as an adult," says Levey-Friedman.
"For the rest of their lives, they may think they have to act
a certain way to make money."
A patchwork of former child stars who struggled to maintain
their stardom as adults is testament. Being raised on camera tends
to stick, almost like a family business. Two current members of the
"Real Housewives of Beverly Hills", both moms now,
returned to the spotlight after their career as kid stars screeched
to a halt. Kelly Osbourne, an early example of reality show
offspring, has made a career as an on-camera fashion pundit and the
continuing saga of both the Duggar and Manzo families has spawned
sibling spin-off shows now in development.
"The good thing is that sometimes it can translate to
behind-the-scenes work, because these kids get a unique exposure to
the way entertainment is made," adds Levey-Friedman.
Several members of the Loud family, whose teenage upbringing was
captured in the 1970's PBS series "An American
Family", ended up forging a career as entertainment writers
and TV marketing executives. 
But that was last century. In 2011, it's harder to retreat
into the background once you're front-and-center in the
frame.
The Gosselins' televised childhood experiences, from dentist
visits to amusement park meltdowns, live in perpetuity on the
Internet and so do their peers. In the near future, fellow
classmates and neighbors can snap cell phone pictures and leak
gossip to celebrity blogs in seconds. Even in their own moment of
attention-seeking, a revealing Facebook update could land Mady,
Cara, Leah or Collin, in a very unpleasant public situation, as
we've witnessed via the YouTube and Twitter accounts of the "Teen Moms". Once
you're on reality TV, you're not like other kids.
You're not even like the other child stars.
“Take someone like Miley Cyrus. A company like Disney can still
on some level protect its child stars," Levey-Friedman says.
"But when you're a reality star and you are the main
character of a show, it's much more difficult to protect your
privacy."
 

In 2009, a family trip to the store turns into a spectacle. (Ray Tamarra/Getty Images)

Jon and Kate still seem to differ on whether that loss of
privacy was worth it. 
"I hope they can have more private family moments,"
Jon told Radar with regards to the show ending. "I hope that
this will bring more privacy to my children and that they can get
the proper attention they need for any personal issues they might
have in the future."
Kate sees it another way: "They gave up some freedom, some
privacy. As a trade-off we live in a great house...and they go to a
great school." 
It's possible the kids can have it both ways. Now that the
show is over, they may eventually recede into a more normal life,
with a unique knowledge of entertainment and the financial
opportunity to foster it in their back pocket.
"Kids are remarkably resilient," says Levey-Friedman.
"What they might be like tomorrow is different from what they
might be like five months, or five years from now. What really
makes the difference is the kind of stability they get from their
family." 
That remains a big question mark, as the Gosselin kids'
entourage of camera crew, nannies and security detail— a kind of extended family— all fall away and
they're left with two parents at odds with each other. 
“Check back in when they’re teenagers,” Kate told People. That
gives the eldest siblings, Cara and Mady, at least three years to
develop without a theme song or microphone packs clipped to their
belt loops. If they're lucky, they'll get a little more
time than that.  
Related:
Bad moments in reality
parenting
TV's most dysfunctional reality
families
Kate Gosselin's shocking
makeover
The Gosselin kids say they miss the
camera crew
Follow Yahoo! Shine on  Twitter, "like" us on
Facebook

Related: sextuplets, reality tv, jon and kate plus 8, gosselin, family, divorce





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 435 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by jen  Fri Sep 9, 2011 4:06pm PDT

I have no sympathy for this woman.  she can do just fine out of the spotlight with a decent job to raise her kids.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Leigh  Fri Sep 9, 2011 6:36pm PDT

After watching the most recent episodes,  I think she is a self absorbed, unstable woman that is so focused on herself that she is incapable of being A mother- let alone a good one!  What a change  she has gone through- how fame truly ruins people.  I think she will be shocked to find out that wwhen her show ends,  no one will be interested in her.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by doodad  Fri Sep 9, 2011 7:23pm PDT

Kate's statement at the end of this article is all telling. She said that" yes, THE children gave up some freedom, but WE get to live in a nice big house." Meaning SHE gets to live in a nice big house, drive fancy little sports cars, spend big money on clothes and beauty services. I can only hope that she has put away a bundle for their college educations, but somehow I doubt it.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Lisa  Fri Sep 9, 2011 9:46pm PDT

I have to agree, I think everyone is pretty much had their fill of this and are just plain sick of it, especially (what sounds like) this extravegent lifestyle that she claims her kids are so accustomed to. I doubt any of her kids would bat an eye, it's just her greed and need to be in the spotlight that she wants.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by B  Sat Sep 10, 2011 7:47am PDT

After they got that big ol' house, I quit watching.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Sue  Sat Sep 10, 2011 1:06pm PDT

Kate's a selfish b----  that has put her children second for too long. Glad she lost the show and hope now she will put forth some effort to put her children first. They need a normal life for a change, before it's too late.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Arlene  Sat Sep 10, 2011 3:48pm PDT

the show should have been called "KATE" (with her eight) since it was mostly about her and her problems.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by gumby girl  Sat Sep 10, 2011 4:04pm PDT

Now Kate will have to actually work for a living.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Sherrie  Sat Sep 10, 2011 4:10pm PDT

" They need a normal life for a change, before it's too late."I think it IS already to late for the kids. 2 of the sextuplets were expulled for fighting(yet from what i heard, got back in) and from that tweet, one of the twins is ready to be back in the spotlight. and disney channel(if that's what she meant) is already screwed up bad enough w/o one of the gosselins in it.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Ms. B  Sat Sep 10, 2011 8:50pm PDT

Like one other person said, Kate is a selfish b---h. She broke that family apart. I watch the show befor John left the show. She treated him like a dog, like hollow at him in the toy store and other places when they were out shoping together with the children. Why would anyone with 8 kids buy a sport car with 8 kids, that is how dummm she is.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 435 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Parenting Cheat_Sheet



The magic age to have a babyHow will your family hold on to every last bit of summer?10 things newly divorced moms should knowHomepages for Homerooms: Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects




Most Popular On Parenting


Celebrities who were bullied as kids Tue Sep 6, 2011 7:51pm PDTAs "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory. Fri Sep 9, 2011 1:05pm PDTKate Winslet's Son Already Wondering if He's Gay At Age 7 Fri Sep 9, 2011 11:12am PDTThe Great Mom Debate: Are Leashes for Kids Cruel or Kind? Thu Sep 8, 2011 7:29am PDTChild star fun fact: Blossom still nurses her 3-year-old son. Here's why... Wed Sep 7, 2011 10:12am PDT


More Most Popular on Parenting »


Parenting poll




Do you let your kids drink soda?





Yes! It's not that big of a deal.
 

Occasionally. I definitely monitor it.
 

Once in a while at parties or special events.
 

Never! I don't care how old they are.
 

Shhh...they think it is an adults-only beverage.








See Results »










Do you let your kids drink soda?





Yes! It's not that big of a deal.

 
18%


 

Occasionally. I definitely monitor it.

 
31%


 

Once in a while at parties or special events.

 
32%


 

Never! I don't care how old they are.

 
11%


 

Shhh...they think it is an adults-only beverage.

 
8%







« Vote on this question



sponsored by:




Updates Chatter on Shine…





Weight Loss Hypnosis Work
by weightloss-diettips.com 1 minute ago





Top 10 Fat Burning Foods
by slimmingsolutions.com 1 minute ago





The Need for a Mental Health Therapist in Los Angeles
by Therapy Tribe 1 minute ago





Can You Trust a Caregiver from Craigslist?
by Majesty Group 2 minutes ago





10 Morning-After Do's and Don'ts
by Tnn 3 minutes ago





Reasons Why Men Cheat In Relationships
by Yuan 4 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


What's your special goodbye before school?



High-fives, an "au revoir", exchanging a code word, or even a kissing hand -- how do you send off your kids every morning?




Watch one special farewell here. »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »














Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


Billie Jean King's surprising secret to success

Ryan Gosling (and other celebrities) to the rescue! Heroic stars in action.‘Anderson’ Premiere: Winehouse Family Claims Drugs Did Not Cause Death


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of days 3 and 4

New York Fashion Week: The best of day 2The 9 Hottest Hair Colors for Fall 2011


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


Kathy Griffin's D-list stay-fit and fabulous tips(video)

5 Health Slip-Ups—Remedied25 simple ways to get more steps in your day


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Kate Winslet's Son Already Wondering if He's Gay At Age 7

The Second Day: Teenage filmmaker gives voice to children of 9/11As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory.


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Still Having Sex With Your Ex?

Woman calls guy she likes 65,000 times. That's a touch much.A 9/11 Widow Shares Her Tale Of Love From Beyond


More in Love + Sex »



Food


4 secrets to a perfect casserole

Deep-Fried Pimiento Cheese10 Quick and Easy School-Night Dinners


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


4 healthy, delicious ways to spice up oatmeal for kids

Strap on your baby and boogie!Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day
















