Event Diary




Translate










No one logged in. Log in





HomeCurrent Responses Volunteer ToolBox Blogs NewsAnimals In Disaster About Us Guest BookCalendarWorld PeaceDonationsHR TalkHR Top PicksHR Map NewsMessage from FoundersLeadershipFriendsAnnual ReportFAQContact UsEvent DiaryBrazilMinot USANebraska USAHurricane IreneWildfiresUS FloodsSign-upSign-InAbout Our VolunteersForumsMap DirectoryHR VideoMobile AppsAnimals In Disaster DigestRedcrossdog_BlogMinot Flood 2011 - Animals in Disaster










Tweet






Event Diary
Updates of Disaster Relief Initiatives

 
 Reports of 6.6 Magnitude Earthquake - India 
 Christine Thompson - Wednesday, September 07, 2011 
 Reports were coming across Twitter of a 6.6 earthquake in India.  Initial reports were from the Times of India which was quickly picked up by Reuters. 
Humanity Road volunteers saw the initial reports and quickly began investigating the veracity of the information. It was immediately recognized that the earthquake was incorrectly reported and information from The India Meteorological Department showed that it was in fact a 4.2 earthquake. USGS shortly thereafter reported it as a 4.3 earthquake.
Prior to publication of the correct information, the Humanity Road disaster desk was activated within minutes after receipt of the initial posts on Twitter and volunteers researched official geological reporting as well as other news sources from within India and other countries.  The volunteers confirmed that no other sources were reporting this event, but did identify a smaller magnitude (4.2) earthquake for the same location.  Information was also provided by members from StandbyTaskForce who live in India. No evidence of injuries or damage was found. Reuters later changed their report to reflect the correct magnitude of the earthquake. The disaster desk was active for 30 minutes.  Humanity Road volunteers responding – Chris, Bettie


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 In the Wake of Irene: Humanity Road leads Media Monitoring Team 
 Christine Thompson - Sunday, August 28, 2011 
 On August 28th Humanity Road lead the media monitoring volunteer team collaborating with Crisis Commons, Ushahidi, Healthmap, the Standby Task Force and other volunteer technical communities on a crowdsourcing map for the East Coast including Virginia http://irenerecoverymap.com/main.  

With a volunteer pool of 30 volunteers (and growing) we are performing media monitoring to enter reports on the map. Humanity Road also launched its Hurricane Irene response page and updated it with Virginia information on Wednesday August 24th, http://www.humanityroad.org/irene.htm.  Our support has ramped up as the impacted population and geography grows.  

Before the hurricane made landfall in NC, we provided the public in Virginia with safety information via social media on what to do before the hurricane as well as providing them links to online evacuation maps, storm surge maps and guidance from official agencies such as VDEM, VDOT and the Norfolk Army Corps of Engineers.  Virginia hurricane evacuation and storm surge official guidance has been highlighted on our homepage at http://humanityroad.org. Our support is not limited to Virginia and we have been sharing this important information for other states and geography impacted. 

Headquartered in Boydton, Virginia, on Thursday August 26th, we also collaborated with Mayor Gerald Wrenn and the Boydton Local Emergency Planning Council on readiness plans for the Town of Boydton.



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Virginia - 5.9 Earthquake 
 Christine Thompson - Wednesday, August 24, 2011 
 On Wednesday, August 24th, Humanity Road volunteers activated online within 1 minute of the 5.9 earthquake.  Public Safety information on what to do and what to expect after an earthquake was provided via social media including Twitter and Facebook.  Tips were provided to the general public on how to communicate in disaster including instructions to send a brief text saying “IMOK” or “RUOK” to emergency contacts.  Red Cross and FEMA safety information on what to do after an earthquake was also shared with the public.  Also, power outage information and generator safety information was provided.  Volunteers monitored social media to identify citizens who may have urgent needs.  There were no urgent needs identified. The disaster desk was active for 2 hours for this event with a total of 20 manhours.



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Hurricane Irene Strikes US Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico 
 Catherine Graham - Monday, August 22, 2011 
 On Monday, August 22nd, T.S. Irene was upgraded to a Category 1 and moved to a Category 2 hurricane on Monday.  It  struck the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puero Rico.  There were over 700 people in shelters in Puerto Rico and an estimated 800,000 people without power as well as over 100,000 without wwater, mostly in the metro area.  On the US Virgin Islands, the impact was not as great with a single shelter opened.  Humanity Road volunteers provided safety tweets and links for helpful videos explaining hurricane preparedness, understanding storm surge, flooding and the safe use of generators. Information was provided in English, Spanish and Creole.  Volunteers continue to monitor social media for the ongoing impact and track for Hurricane Irene.



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Humanitarian Day, Earthquakes and Belgium Stage Collapse  
 Catherine Graham - Sunday, August 21, 2011 
 WEEKEND August 19 – August 21 - What did volunteers work on this weekend? Friday was World Humanitarian Day and Humanity Road volunteers published and shared links to celebrate and recognize humanitarians globally who are helping the world. We shared the live feed for the media conference that took place on Friday afternoon. Among other items worked, an agency needed a solution for damage assessment, volunteers worked to track down existing software. Broward County won an award for their groundbreaking damage assessment tool http://gis.broward.org/mda. The Animals in Disaster reviewed a book on their blog called “Guide to Pet Safety”. Team lead Toni McNulty interviewed with CNN for a piece on disaster preparedness for pets, that should be coming out on the CNN website soon. 


Also this weekend a news article was published on CNN World by Dr. John Brownstein from Healthmap.org “Using Social Media for Disease Surveillance”. Volunteers monitored various quakes: Early Friday morning Magnitude 6.7 19/08/2011 05:36 NEAR EAST COAST OF HONSHU, JAPAN More people in Tokyo reported feeling it than near the quake, most likely because its near Fukushima the evacuation zone. Local hashtags: # saigai # eqjp # earthquake # jishin. Other quakes monitored included a 5.6 Mag in the Sandwich Islands as well as a 7.5 that struck Vanuatu. Social media was monitored for impacts and “did you feel it” report link was distributed. 

Christoph Dennenmoser worked on an event in Belgium where a sudden storm led to severe damages on a music festival (Pukkelpop) in Belgium and caused the death of 5 young people and injured about 80. He monitored twitter tweeted and retweeted from HR. Christoph also released heat advisories and guidance in twitter for Germany, Europe for the heat wave that continues. On Sunday, Gisli Olaffson from Nethope tweeted the need to find two mobile masts in Kenya as he is involved in a Nethope project. This proved to be challenging but through diligence was successful! The disaster desk began to monitor the impacts of approaching tropical storm which is now named Hurricane Irene. 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 6.6 Negros Phillipines, Heatwave and Costa Rica 
 Catherine Graham - Saturday, July 16, 2011 
 On 7/11/2011 at about 04:55 local time an earthquake of magnitude 6.6 occurred in the moderately populated region of Negros in Philippines. The quake was later downgraded to 6.2 and GDACs issued an orange alert for the quake along with a probable tsunami.  GDACs forecasted the maximum tsunami wave height near the coast of Sipalay will be 0.34m.  Humanity Road monitored social media and local residents did report feeling the earthquake.  There were no reported damages or injuries.  Humanity Road published general safety tweets regarding aftershocks and tsunamis for those living in coastal communities and provide advice regarding sending a text message.  A new tweet trackiing tool provided by ASU was used during this event to monitor live twitter streams.  The disaster desk was active for 1 hour.  Volunteers responding:  Christoph Dennemoser, Cat Graham, Shamanth Kumar, Chris Thompson, Toni McNulty, Cindy Becker

Volunteers monitored earthquake activity 5.6 Costa Rica on July 12, Mumbai Bombings on July 13, Mt. Lokon Indonesia volcano Eruption Jakarta July 14, 5.9 SeaQuake in the Sandwich Islands 6.09 Offshore Valparaiso Chile.  General awareness tweets were released during the week due to a continuing heat wave pattern globally.  Animals in Disaster and RedCrossDog were busy tweeting animal safety as well as livestock safey to recognize heat stress in cows and horses, to learn more read the Animals in Disaster Digest .   Follow Friday was dedicated to American Red Cross offices around the world using twitter.



Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Kermadec Earthquake, Arizona Fire and Dengue Fever 
 Catherine Graham - Saturday, July 09, 2011 
 This week volunteers worked on monitoring impacts and social media traffic on July 6, a 7.7 - Kermadec Islands region off the coast of Australia - 06/07/11 15:03:16 EDT Depth: 1 km (0.62 mi) http://is.gd/DnzBLq  Volunteers tracked tsunami warnings and traffic from Civil Defence which stated a tsunami of between 60cm - 1 metre had been detected. Safety tweets were shared and monitored for the location including at Raoul Island where the total population is 8 persons.  Once again there was slight confusion in social media when two different Tsunami alerts were issued, one for local area and one from Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre (covers USA coastlines)  PTWC cancelled their alert, but the local alert was still in place.  Volunteers monitored local officials as well as Dart Buoys to help assess impacts and clarify and retweet the local warnings.  No significant damage or impacts were detected. @melymello Bettie Tussey, Chris Thompson, Christoph Dennenmoser, Toni McNulty and Steven Longmire 
 
July 9, 2011 volunteers monitored 5.5 - off the east coast of the North Island of New Zealand (Australia) - 10:40:45 EDT Depth: 18.3 km (11.37 mi) #Earthquake  Local social media traffic was monitored, no impacts determined.  Shared Did you feel it? Link for USGS to analyze  http://on.doi.gov/qiFl7N  #eqnz


 
 
Toni McNulty and @disasteranimals, reported on the The Tucson Wildlife Center, which is overwhelmed with victims of the devastating wildfires in Arizona, check out the  brief 5 min video on the Animals in Disaster Digest from the American Veterinary Medical Association that provides lots of valuable information on disaster planning for farm animals, pets and horses..You can also Like and friend them on facebook . 

Kerkian Consulting helped us get our Maps and Apps pages out and running, thank you so much Jeff for our website!
 
This week we became aware of  more Dengue cases in the USA and abroad.  Big thanks to JudithF @simonesc and Yakubu who helped trackdown and confirm reports of Cholera and Dengue Fever.  For up to date information on outbreaks bookmark http://www.healthmap.org  

 
Big Thanks to Christoph Dennenmoser has been working on our Urgent Needs project to help track and fill needs as well as monitoring the disaster desk and monitoring for urgent needs.  


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Fires Flood and Urgent Needs 
 Catherine Graham - Tuesday, June 28, 2011 
 Overview:  In response to the Missouri and Souris Rivers flooding, we added event pages for Minot, ND and Omaha/Council Bluffs, NE. Links to these pages are featured on our Home Page. Information was posted in Twitter about shelters, flood preparedness, "after the flood" tips, and special assistance available for farm/crop flood victims. Animals in Disaster added a new blog for the Minot Flood with pet shelter information and released evacuation instructions from local Omaha Officials.

Animals in Disaster Team has been busy working on Tweeting from @RedCrossDog and @DisasterAnimals. They've been monitoring hashtags #nmfire and #lasconchas for current information. Tweeting lodging info, current fire sitreports from HR. Tweeted pet/livestock shelter info from DisasterAnimals. This week they added new blog "Minot Flood 2011 - Animals in Disaster" and posted sheltering options and links to Lost Pet Facebook pages.

Urgent Needs volunteers have been working on monitoring  2 significant fires that are ongoing across Florida and southern Georgia. Honey Prairie Complex is largest at 283k+ acres, unknown containment.  One tweet came in from @krobertory 6:33pm Today 32 significant fires are ongoing across Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma. White Hat is largest w/ 72k+ acres burned & 90% contained. Las Conchas Fire near Los Alamos, Texas continues to grow & threaten structures. 60,000+ acres burned. Town evacuating.  We received an update that materials purchased for Haiti were loaded to transport yesterday and are on their way.  This includes an autoclave, a small generator and lights as well as a suction machine. Technology volunteers added new event pages for Minot Flood and Nebraska Flood 


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Caution: It was Not a 7.7 Magnitude Earthquake - Italy 
 Christine Thompson - Sunday, June 12, 2011 
 No it wasn’t a hoax.  It wasn’t a conspiracy and it wasn’t a hacker.  It was just a mistake.

On 6/12/2011 at 2:50:23 AM UTC an Orange UNOCHA Global Disaster Alert was issued for an earthquake of magnitude 7.7 and depth 1km in the Liguria Province (population: 1.7 million) in Italy.  

It didn’t happen.

GDACs rescinded the alert with the following information;
 
“The GDACS system automatically calculates earthquake impact based on earthquake information scraped from various seismological institutes. These institutes also use automatic systems to publish information based on seismological measurements, and the information is not always immediately revised by seismologists. 

This morning, a false earthquake was published by EMSC (which corrected this later), but this triggered an automatic Orange alert in GDACS. We apologize for the inconvenience.”   

Prior to publication of the rescinded alert, the Humanity Road disaster desk was activated after receipt of the initial alert and volunteers researched official geological reporting agencies from multiple countries.  The volunteers confirmed that no other sources reporting this event, but did identify a smaller magnitude (3.2) earthquake for the same location.  Tweet streams and mainstream news were also monitored to ensure no critical damage or injuries were reported.  
 
Humanity Road (and others) sent a request to GDACs webmaster requesting the publication of a correction.  GDACs issued a correction 7 hours after the initial alert.  

Humanity Road volunteers responding - Christoph, Toni, Cindy, Bettie (Special Thank you also to Gisli Olafsson)


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink




 Puyehue-Cordon Caulle Volcanic Eruption 
 Catherine Graham - Saturday, June 04, 2011 
  A volcano in Chile is pending an eruption, Puyehue-Cordon Caulle ejected ash 8 miles high.  One city is covered in ash and as of Jun04 they are evacuating approximately 3500 from 10 communities.  The smell of Sulfur is strong and a series of earthquakes are trembling the area, local officials have stated that eruption is emminent. Volunteers worked the event for five hours collecting information on shelters, the evacuation and impacted locations, status of hotels, shelters and airports.  Authorities asked population to to keep their water reserves in emergency & recommends use of face masks http://bit.ly/mFlBj7  Did you feel shaking? report it to USGS here http://on.doi.gov/jU6vKY.  Volunteers researched impacts and delivered local guidance in twitter in english and spanish.  Guidance included tips on protecting life and property from ash, potentials risks of ash on high risk populations (children and older adults), animals and engines. and shared guidance from ARC and FEMA including,  if caught indoors to close windows, doors and dampers.    Hashtags so far: #Puyehue #Chile #volcano.  Volunteers working the event included @NancyArmstrongT and Bettie Tussey in Twitter, Disaster Desk volunteers included Toni McNulty, Simone Coutinho, Cindy Becker and Cat Graham.


Comments (0) | Trackbacks (0) | Permalink



 
Previous  1  2 3 4 5 .. 6 Next 


Recent Posts
 Reports of 6.6 Magnitude Earthquake - IndiaIn the Wake of Irene: Humanity Road leads Media Monitoring TeamVirginia - 5.9 EarthquakeHurricane Irene Strikes US Virgin Islands and Puerto RicoHumanitarian Day, Earthquakes and Belgium Stage Collapse 6.6 Negros Phillipines, Heatwave and Costa RicaKermadec Earthquake, Arizona Fire and Dengue FeverFires Flood and Urgent NeedsCaution: It was Not a 7.7 Magnitude Earthquake - ItalyPuyehue-Cordon Caulle Volcanic Eruption 
Tags
  Disaster Animals Iowa North Carolina Tornado heat stress Volunteer Haiti New Zealand Fire Missouri Typhoon Indonesia Mississippi South Pacific Italy Seaquake Drill Chile California Virginia India Social Media Volcano Phillipines Pakistan Hurricane Irene Riptides Flooding Iran Central America Tropical Storm Japan Alabama Libya, Violence, crowdsource Minot Colorado pets Mudslides Education Helicopter Disease crowdsourcing Disaster Relief Urgent Need Disaster Preparedness Mexico Public Information Midatlantic Earthquake Alaska Nova Scotia Food, Water Florida Hurricane USA Brazil   Alabama (1) Alaska (1) Brazil (2) California (2) Central America (1) Chile (2) Colorado (1) crowdsourcing (3) Disaster Animals (2) Disaster Preparedness (5) Disaster Relief (20) Disease (1) Drill (1) Earthquake (20) Education (1) Fire (2) Flooding (7) Florida (1) Food, Water (1) Haiti (2) heat stress (1) Helicopter (1) Hurricane (6) Hurricane Irene (1) India (1) Indonesia (1) Iowa (1) Iran (1) Italy (1) Japan (2) Libya, Violence, crowdsource (1) Mexico (1) Midatlantic (2) Minot (1) Mississippi (1) Missouri (1) Mudslides (1) New Zealand (4) North Carolina (1) Nova Scotia (1) Pakistan (5) pets (1) Phillipines (2) Public Information (17) Riptides (1) Seaquake (3) Social Media (2) South Pacific (1) Tornado (3) Tropical Storm (3) Typhoon (1) Urgent Need (1) USA (3) Virginia (3) Volcano (2) Volunteer (4) 
Archive
 September 2011 (1)August 2011 (4)July 2011 (2)June 2011 (4)May 2011 (1)April 2011 (8)March 2011 (2)February 2011 (5)January 2011 (1)November 2010 (4)October 2010 (2) 

 

Go Back

Humanity Road, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to educating the public with critical recovery information before, during and after a catastrophic disaster. Humanity Road, Inc. and its global volunteers endeavor to provide information that is useful, timely and as accurate as possible, however, they should not be viewed as an authoritative source. Please do not rely solely on the content of this web site for emergency response decision making without verification through alternate sources.

       
                                  


            
                   

                      
 
        Copyright © Humanity Road, Inc. 2011. All Rights Reserved.
        Design meets function at Kerkian Consulting, LLC.

















