Eco-Friendly Tips - powered by FeedBurner
&




Eco-Friendly Tips

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Eco-Friendly Tips delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Summit sounds climate change alarm


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 07:12:45 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




AUCKLAND (AFP) – Pacific leaders identified climate change as the greatest threat to the region Thursday, ordering officials to start work on plans to help people forced to relocate by rising sea levels.
The 16-nation Pacific Islands Forum said the impact of climate change was already apparent in countries such as Kiribati, where some villagers have had to abandon their homes as the seas rise, and finance was needed to help them.

”Climate change remains the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and well-being of the peoples of the Pacific,” said a communique issued by the regional grouping after a two-day summit in Auckland.
The communique, which also raised concerns about human rights in Fiji, thanked UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for travelling to Auckland this week to highlight the threat posed by climate change.
During his visit, the UN leader said he had seen the effect of global warming first-hand during a visit to Kiribati and it had reinforced his belief that climate change was a reality. ”Climate change is not about tomorrow,” he said during his Auckland visit. ”It is lapping at our feet — quite literally in Kiribati and elsewhere.”
The PIF leaders ordered a report into how relocation options could be financed in a region where many island nations rely heavily on foreign aid, taking into account ”the specific capacities and needs of respective countries”.
They said there was a ”critical and urgent need” for finance to help Pacific countries ”in particular those already suffering, (who) are displaced or are being displaced as a result of the detrimental impacts of climate change”.
During the summit, Kiribati President Anote Tong revealed that his low-lying nation was considering radical solutions to deal with rising seas, such as moving its 100,000-strong population onto man-made floating islands.

	Tags: anote, auckland, ban ki moon, detrimental impacts, effect of global warming, floating islands, foreign aid, human rights, impacts of climate change, kiribati, pacific countries, pacific islands forum, pacific leaders, radical solutions, regional grouping, relocation, rising sea levels, tong, un secretary general

     




Nigeria to curb loans to firms that hurt


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:33:24 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com






By Tim Cocks and Chijioke Ohuocha

LAGOS |
Fri Sep 9, 2011 12:59pm EDT


LAGOS (Reuters) – Nigeria’s regulators plan to introduce new lending standards for banks aimed at preventing loans to businesses that wreck the ecosystem, including oil companies not meeting environmental standards, the central bank governor said on Friday.


Lamido Sanusi told Reuters on the sidelines of a conference on sustainable finance in the commercial hub of Lagos that the standards would encourage environmentally responsible lending.

“Oil companies will have to know that if they want to borrow from Nigerian banks there are certain standards they have to comply with,” he said, but did not flesh out details of what those standards would be.

“We will as regulators see that we even deal with the international banks on this. The principle is that Nigerian banks have a balance sheet that’s taken from savings of Nigerians and that money should not be used to finance businesses that lead to the degeneration of the environment.”

Oil companies operating in Nigeria have come under fire for oil spills in the Niger Delta, although they say most are caused by sabotage of pipelines.

A U.N. report has criticized the Nigerian government and Royal Dutch Shell for contributing to 50 years of pollution in a part of the Niger Delta it says needs the world’s largest oil clean-up, costing an initial $1 billion.

Reacting to that report, Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan has set up a committee to review it last month.

“You can’t get fish in the rivers of the Niger Delta,” Sanusi, wearing a traditional northern Nigerian white robe, said. “Why did you think the people of the Niger Delta had an uprising? It’s not about oil companies making money, it’s about the environment being destroyed,” he said.

CONFIDENCE IN CHINA’S YUAN

Sanusi was speaking after returning from a trip to China in which he pledged to put 5-10 percent of Nigeria’s foreign currency reserves into China’s yuan, which he said would inevitably become a reserve currency.

He defended that decision as an attractive long term investment on Friday, saying there were strategic imperatives on China that he thought would lead the yuan to appreciate.

“It is a step that opens up a number of windows. Investment flows coming in  renimbi (yuan) without going through a third currency, settlements, the ability to finance and borrow on Asian markets that are extremely liquid at this time.”

He suggested Chinese policy makers would in the long run have to allow the yuan to rise.

“Their are a number of strategic imperatives. The major driver of growth is going to be domestic consumption, inflation in China is toping 5 percent and a lot of it is imported, and given what’s happening with U.S. downgrade, the Chinese are going to have much less appetite for dollar balances,” he said.

“We’re going into a currency that will appreciate.”

Sanusi said Nigeria was moving toward the end of its banking crisis, as the nine lenders rescued in a $4 billion bail out in 2009 prepare to vote on merger deals or await more capital injections as nationalized banks.

“All the banks are having their EGMs (shareholder meetings to vote on recapitalization). We gave them three months to show the market they’re on their way to integration,” he said.

“I’ve no doubt that by the end of September we’ll have drawn a line under the banking crisis.”

Article source: Source
	Tags: central bank governor, climate change, commercial hub, ecofriendly, environment, environmental standards, fri, global warning, goodluck jonathan, green, international banks, lagos, niger delta, nigerian banks, nigerian government, nigerians, oil companies, pipelines, reuters, royal dutch shell, sabotage, sanusi, sidelines, trip to china, white robe

     




Nate now a depression, oil contractors found in Mexico


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:33:17 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com






By Roberto Ramirez

GUTIERREZ ZAMORA, Mexico |
Sun Sep 11, 2011 6:20pm EDT


GUTIERREZ ZAMORA, Mexico (Reuters) – Storm Nate weakened to a tropical depression on Sunday as it moved farther inland across the coffee and sugar growing state of Veracruz, in the Gulf of Mexico.


Nate, which could still dump one to two inches of rain over Veracruz, is expected to dissipate on Monday, the Miami-based National Hurricane Center said.

State oil monopoly Pemex said it had rescued seven out of 10 contract workers who had been missing since Thursday after evacuating a rig in the Gulf of Mexico due to bad weather.

Four Mexicans, two Americans and one Bangladeshi were among those rescued in the Bay of Campeche. Two other workers were found dead and one remains missing, Pemex said.

The depression was 30 miles south south-west of Tuxpan, with maximum sustained winds of 35 miles per hour, the hurricane center said in its 5:00 p.m. EDT advisory. It is moving west, north-west at eight mph.

Veracruz is one of Mexico’s top producers of coffee and sugar and flooding could damage recently planted crops. High moisture also can cause fungus in coffee beans and flooding and landslides that could affect transportation routes and delay exports.

Sugar crops in Veracruz were greatly damaged last year in an intense tropical storm season.

The oil-exporting port of Cayo Arcas remained closed along with two other smaller ports. Dos Bocas reopened to shipping earlier on Sunday after four days of inactivity.

Pemex evacuated 473 workers from five sea platforms as a precaution but had not said if they had started to return to work. Nate had cut Mexican oil production by 178,800 barrels a day as of Friday.

Local media reported a fisherman drowned on Friday after strong surf capsized his little boat in the Bay of Campeche area.

Meanwhile, the center of Tropical Storm Maria was seen passing well north of Puerto Rico later on Sunday.

Article source: Source
	Tags: bad weather, climate change, coffee beans, contract workers, dos bocas, ecofriendly, environment, global warning, green, gutierrez zamora, little boat, maximum sustained winds, mexico sun, national hurricane center, oil monopoly, pemex, roberto ramirez, sea platforms, sugar crops, top producers, tropical depression, tropical storm maria, tropical storm season, weather four, zamora mexico

     




7 oil workers found alive in Gulf of Mexico


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:20:13 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




VERACRUZ, Mexico (AP) — Seven of 10 oil workers missing in the Gulf of Mexico were found alive Sunday, according to Mexico’s state oil company, three days after evacuating their disabled rig in a tropical storm and escaping in an enclosed life raft.
Two bodies also were found but have yet to be identified, and rescuers are still searching for one worker who remains missing, Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, said in a statement.

Pemex identified the survivors as two Americans, Jeremy Parfait and Ted Derise, Jr., both of Louisiana, Kham Nadimuzzaman of Bangladesh and Mexicans Ruben Velasquez, Eleaquin Lopez, Luis Escobar and Ruben Lopez Villalobos.
They were found 51 miles (82 kilometers) off the coast of the gulf state of Campeche by the ship Bourbon Artavaze and taken by helicopter to the Campeche port city of Ciudad del Carmen, where they were admitted to a Pemex regional hospital.
The fate of the other two Americans, who have been identified previously as Craig Myers and Nick Reed, also of Louisiana, was not clear late Sunday.
The oil company and the Mexican Navy, which assisted in the search and rescue, provided no other immediate details. It was not known how the survivors and bodies were found or whether they were still in the life boat. There was also no word on the condition of the survivors.
All were working for Houston-based Geokinetics Inc. on a liftboat owned by Trinity Liftboat Services based in New Iberia, Louisiana. All four Americans were from the New Iberia area, including Reed, who is the son of liftboat company owner Randy Reed.
Geokinetics spokeswoman Brenda Taquino could not reached for comment Sunday night.
A woman who answered the phone at Trinity Lifeboat Services said the company can’t confirm details about the workers being found.
A girl who answered the telephone at the home of Ted Allen Derise Sr. said she was the sister of the rig worker but wouldn’t give her name.
“It’s good news to us but we’re still praying for the other people,” she said.
The oil workers called for help Thursday afternoon in the middle of Tropical Storm Nate, which disabled their vessel, the Trinity II, a 94-foot (29-meter), 185-ton liftboat, that can lower legs to the sea floor and then elevate itself above the water level. This one was being used as a recording vessel and housing for the crew, and it was in waters about 25 feet (8 meters) deep.
They abandoned the liftboat about 8 miles (13 kilometers) off shore of the port of Frontera in southeastern Mexican state of Tabasco.
Pemex and the Mexican navy led the search by air and sea, which intensified Saturday as the storm moved west toward the coast of Veracruz. A dozen fishermen who disappeared aboard two shrimp boats on Friday in the gulf during the storm.
Pemex said the search continued late Sunday with four boats, four Pemex helicopters and two airplanes making overflights.
Nate weakened to a tropical depression and then a “remnant low” late Sunday over Mexico’s Gulf coast, where officials opened shelters as a precaution but said the storm was having little impact.
Nate made landfall as a tropical storm on Sunday north of Barra de Nautla in the state of Veracruz, where Gov. Javier Duarte said there were no reports of damage or injuries and rivers remained below risk level.
The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said that by Sunday night Nate’s winds had weakened to 30 mph (45 kph) winds and it would not release any more advisories on the storm.
Of more than 2,200 shelters set up in Veracruz state, only two were in use, housing little more than 50 people, civil protection authorities said. In the city of Antigua, Mayor Arturo Navarrete told radio station XEU that there was light rain and very little wind.
In the Caribbean on Sunday, Tropical Storm Maria was centered about 105 miles (170 kilometers) northeast of San Juan, Puerto Rico, with winds that had strengthened to 60 mph (95 kph). The hurricane center said it was moving northwest at about 10 mph (17 kph), toward the open Atlantic.
In Puerto Rico, there were no reports of any damage or flooding from Maria.

	Tags: ciudad del carmen, craig myers, derise, geokinetics inc, life boat, life raft, lifeboat services, liftboat, luis escobar, mexican navy, new iberia louisiana, oil workers, pemex, petroleos mexicanos, randy reed, rig worker, ruben lopez, state oil company, ted allen, veracruz mexico

     




Death toll reaches 15,782 from great quake-tsunami in Japan


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:13:06 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




TOKYO, Japan (Xinhua) — The devastating earthquake and tsunami in March have left 15,782 people dead and 4,086 others unaccounted for in Japan by Sunday, which marks the sixth-month anniversary of the twin disasters, according to the National Police Agency.
The disasters affected people in about 12 of Japan’s 47 prefectures and more than 2,000 people remain missing in Miyagi prefecture alone.

A 9.0-magnitude earthquake hit the Pacific coastal areas of northeastern and eastern Japan on March 11, triggering an enormous tsunami.
Heavy casualties and extensive damage have been caused by the twin disasters, which also triggered the world’s worst disaster at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant since Chernobyl accident in 1986. 

	Tags: chernobyl accident, coastal areas, death toll, devastating earthquake, disasters, eastern japan, fukushima, heavy casualties, magnitude earthquake, miyagi prefecture, national police agency, nuclear power plant, pacific coastal, quake tsunami, tokyo japan, tsunami in japan, worst disaster, xinhua

     




6.0-magnitude quake hits Vanuatu


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:07:01 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




HONG KONG (Xinhua) — An earthquake measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale hit off Vanuatu at 0737 Beijing time on Monday ( 2337 GMT on Sunday), the U.S. Geological Survey said.

The epicenter, with a depth of 1 km, was initially determined to be at 18.1386 degrees south latitude and 167.8999 degrees east longitude. It was about 60 kilometers southwest of Port-Vila, capital of Vanuatu.  

	Tags: capital of vanuatu, earthquake, east longitude, epicenter, hong kong, magnitude quake, richter scale, south latitude, u s geological survey

     




Day4 Energy Signs Technology Agreement With Taiwan Solar PV Cell Manufacturer


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 02:23:40 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




Day4 Energy Signs Technology Agreement With Taiwan Solar PV Cell Manufacturer
PR Newswire — September 12, 2011
BURNABY, British Columbia, September 12, 2011 /PRNewswire/ –
- Solar Cell Provider, Ever Energy Co. Ltd, Signs Agreement to Manufacture High Efficiency Solar PV Cells With Day4 Energy’s stay-powerful(TM) Technology
Day4 Energy Inc., a leading global provider of solar photovoltaic (PV) products and solutions has signed an agreement with Ever Energy Co. Ltd, a top producer of high efficiency solar PV cells in Taiwan, to manufacture Day4 DNA(TM) cells with Day4 stay-powerful(TM) [http://www.day4energy.com/technology_and_performance/patented-innovations ] Technology.
With a focus on high end products in terms of both quality and efficiency, Ever Energy and its experienced research and development division will apply the innovative blueprint and efficiency boosting benefits of stay-powerful(TM) Technology as a platform to launch new cell designs in the coming months.
“By implementing Day4 Energy’s state-of-the-art cell manufacturing processes and stay-powerful(TM) Technology, we can provide a differentiated product and significant competitive edge for module manufacturers wanting to produce a truly differentiated product”, commented Dr. J.J. Lee, president of Ever Energy. “Our next generation solar cells will maximize customer value, offering high quality technology over traditional solar PV cells for our customers to stand out in an increasingly competitive market.”
Stay-powerful(TM) Technology, the core innovation behind Day4 DNA(TM), is a process that revolutionizes the collection of power solar electric cells generate and how they are interconnected within a module. It is a direct replacement of the conventional, high temperature solar cell soldering process.
“We are proud to partner with Ever Energy. Together we can offer module manufacturers around the world a clear path to producing higher value, lower cost products for their customers”, noted George Rubin, president of Day4 Energy. “Without the need for high temperature soldering, electroluminescence or concern for micro-cracks, cell producers can offer module manufacturers the added benefits of extremely low cell to modules (CTM) power losses. No other cell technology does all of this”, concluded Mr. Rubin.
For more information on Day4 Energy and to view detailed animations on each DNA technology, please visit http://www.day4energy.com or join the conversation by following Day4 Energy on social media applications such as Twitter [http://twitter.com ], Facebook [https://www.facebook.com/pages/Burnaby-BC/Day4-Energy-Inc/125407917484778 ], LinkedIn [http://www.linkedin.com/company/day4-energy-inc. ] and YouTube [http://www.youtube.com/user/day4energy ].
About Day4 Energy Headquartered in Vancouver, Canada, Day4 Energy is a leading global provider of solar photovoltaic products and solutions. Active in the areas of research & design, manufacturing, technology licensing and all aspects of project management, Day4 Energy is enabling the growth of solar energy throughout the world. Day4 is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol “DFE”. For more information, please visit http://www.day4energy.com.
About Ever Energy Established in 2005, Ever Energy is a major producer of high quality and efficiency silicon based solar photovoltaic (PV) cells using stable and reliable wafers from world famous suppliers. The Company’s focus to date has been on device improvement for screen printing silicon solar cells, low cost process development for high efficiency solar cells and providing technical support to customers in enhancing module and system performance. http://www.everenergy.com.tw.
Forward Looking Statements This news release contains forward-looking information. These statements relate to future events or future performance and reflect management’s current expectations and assumptions. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and the Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise them to reflect new events or circumstances.
For further information:
Investor Relations Contact Therese Hayes Head, Corporate Development Day4 Energy Inc. +1(604)345-6771 thayes@day4energy.com Media and Public Relations Contact Agnieszka Pozniak Marketing Manager Day4 Energy Inc. +1(604)296-0415 apozniak@day4energy.com
(DFE.)
 Subject Codes: PC/t.110912062334368, PR/dest.Public, PT/lang.en, RE/British_Columbia, IN/ALT, IN/EUT, SU/CON

	Tags: Eco-friendly, ecofriendly

     




MEGAMAN(R)’s Brand Owner, Neonlite Releases First Sustainability Report


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 01:30:40 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




MEGAMAN(R)’s Brand Owner, Neonlite Releases First Sustainability Report
PR Newswire — September 12, 2011
HONG KONG, September 12, 2011 /PRNewswire/ –
Neonlite Electronic & Lighting (HK) Limited, the renowned energy-efficient lighting brand owner of MEGAMAN(R), today released its first Sustainability Report, marking the company’s commitment to conducting its business in a socially sustainable manner. With these results, MEGAMAN(R) has confirmed its top position of the lighting industry in ecological optimization of manufacturing processes and products.
Embracing the philosophy of “Life in Light” and a sustainable management strategy in economic, environmental and social aspects, this report presents the way Neonlite takes its responsibilities across its value chain and the approach it works to mitigate the environmental impact arising from its products, and daily operations. Neonlite also shows how it takes care of its employees and present its engagement to the communities, especially enhancing environmental education.
Highlights of the report include:
- Average mercury usage in CFL reduced to 1.63 mg per lamp as a result of Amalgam technology. – 50kg of mercury recovered from company’s own recycling plant between 2007 and 2010. – Employee accidents decreased by 66% in 2010 as compared to 2007. – MEGAMAN(R) Charity Trust Fund funded research projects investigating artificial lighting in commercial interiors and new strategies for sustainable lighting. – Corporate donations totaled US$7.84 million, of which 78% went to education.
“We are delighted to introduce our first Sustainability Report to demonstrate our dedication to the sustainable development of our business and the community as a whole,” said Foo Onn Wah, Chairman, and Lee Wing Tak, Chief Executive Officer, of Neonlite. “This report serves as a platform to facilitate dialogue with our stakeholders on our sustainability performance, and proclaims our continuous commitment to care for people and the environment as we continue to bring innovative lighting solutions to our domestic and commercial customers.”
The report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) and is corresponding to Level B. It can be viewed and downloaded at http://www.megaman.cc/sustainability-report
About Neonlite
NeonliteElectronic & Lighting (HK) Limited, the brand owner of MEGAMAN(R), is a global leader in the design, innovation and distribution of eco-friendly, energy efficient LED and CFL lighting products. The company has its own state-of-the-art manufacturing plants, an extensive network of concept stores, and wide distribution of its MEGAMAN(R) products in over 90 countries throughout the world.
For more information about Neonlite and MEGAMAN(R), please visit the website at http://www.megaman.cc.
 Subject Codes: PC/t.110912053022895, PR/dest.Public, PT/lang.en, RE/Asia, RE/Hong_Kong, IN/FIN, IN/CPR, IN/ECP, IN/GRE, SU/PDT, SU/CXP

	Tags: Eco-friendly, ecofriendly

     




ReportsnReports – China Wind Turbine Casting Industry (2011), U.S. Convenience Store Foodservice Trends & Discount Offers on Euromonitor Research Reports


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 00:10:24 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




ReportsnReports – China Wind Turbine Casting Industry (2011), U.S. Convenience Store Foodservice Trends & Discount Offers on Euromonitor Research Reports
PR Newswire — September 12, 2011
DALLAS, September 12, 2011 /PRNewswire/ –
ReportsnReports announces it will carry market research intelligence on China Wind Turbine Casting Industry (2011) and U.S. Convenience Store Foodservice Trends as well as offer Discounts on Euromonitor Research Reports in its store
A. 2011 Deep Research Report on China Wind Turbine Casting Industry [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125332-china-wind-turbine-casting-industry-2011-deep-research-report-.html ]
This report covers Wind Turbine Casting Industry Overview, Manufacturing Technology and Process, Production Supply Sales Demand Market Status and Forecast, Key Manufacturers, China Wind Turbine Casting Upstream suppliers of raw materials and equipment analysis, Downstream Co-operation Wind Turbine Manufacturers and more with a large number of Tables and Figures to support the analysis. It covers info & statistics on 17 Wind Turbine Casting Manufacturers product (750KW 850KW 1.0MW 1.25MW 1.5MW 1.65MW 2.0MW 2.5MW 3.0MW 5.0MW etc.) and other detailed information. The report also covers 20000 tons/year Wind Turbine Casting project feasibility analysis and related research conclusions.
Get Table of Contents and complete report on China Wind Turbine Casting Industry [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125332-china-wind-turbine-casting-industry-2011-deep-research-report-.html ] .
B.Convenience Store Foodservice Trends in the U.S. [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125276-convenience-store-foodservice-trends-in-the-us.html ]
This research estimates that convenience store foodservice sales grew 5.6% in 2010, and forecasts sales to rise by 5.8% in 2011 and 5.3% in 2012, on the heels of aggressive foodservice platform build outs and increased convenience store foodservice patronage. In the process, foodservice is transforming the convenience store user experience, forcing players to improve their platforms or get left behind.
Convenience Store Foodservice Trends in the U.S. helps industry participants understand and leverage key trends shaping the category growth.
Explore and Buy the complete report on US Convenience Store Foodservice Trends [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125276-convenience-store-foodservice-trends-in-the-us.html ] .
C. Euromonitor Research – Discount Offers
ReportsnReports.com offers special offers and discounts on market research reports by Euromonitor [http://www.reportsnreports.com/publisher/euromonitor-international ] International. Explore reports on multiple sectors including but not limited to Packaged Food, Hot Drinks, Soft Drinks, Alcoholic Drinks, Home Care, Beauty, Personal Care and more. Here are the discount details:
Euromonitor Discount Offers:
I. Buy any:
- 2 reports – 10% Discount – 3 reports – 15% Discount – 4+ reports – 20% Discount
II. Order any Report older than 12 months from your order date and avail 20% discount
Explore all Euromonitor reports [http://www.reportsnreports.com/publisher/euromonitor-international ] available on ReportsnReports.com. If you do not find what you are looking for, contact us [http://www.reportsnreports.com/ContactUs.aspx ] and we will be happy to help you in your research.
Other new and latest market research on ReportsnReports.com:
- Global and China Memory Industry Report, 2011 [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125272-global-and-china-memory-industry-report-2011.html ] – The Latino Household Products Shopper [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125277-the-latino-household-products-shopper.html ] – Omega-3: Global Product Trends and Opportunities [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125278-omega-3-global-product-trends-and-opportunities.html ] – Commercial and Industrial Gate and Door Opener Market Shares, Strategies, and Forecasts, Worldwide, 2011 to 2017 [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125330-commercial-and-industrial-gate-and-door-opener-market-shares-str.html ] – Building Automation & Control Systems Market [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125351-global-building-automation-control-systems-market-by-products-.html ] – Smartphone Security Market [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125352-global-smartphone-security-market-by-operating-systems-ownership.html ] – Clinical Trials Market [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125353-global-clinical-trials-market-2007-2010.html ] – Biomarker Technology Platforms for Cancer Diagnoses and Therapies [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/75179-biomarker-technology-platforms-for-cancer-diagnoses-and-therapies.html ] – Picture Archiving and Communications Systems (PACS) [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/75227-picture-archiving-and-communications-systems-pacs.html ] – European Point of Care Diagnostic Testing Markets [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125324-european-point-of-care-diagnostic-testing-markets.html ] – Trends in Trade Book Retailing 2011 [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125283-trends-in-trade-book-retailing-2011.html ] – Overview of Carbon Capture and Storage in Europe [http://www.reportsnreports.com/reports/125109-overview-of-carbon-capture-and-storage-in-europe.html ]
About Us
ReportsnReports is an online market research [http://www.reportsnreports.com ] library of 130,000+ reports and in-depth studies of over 5000 micro markets. Our database includes reports by leading publishers from across the globe. We provide 24/7 online and offline support service to our customers.
Follow Us on Twitter @ http://twitter.com/marketsreports
‘Like Us’ on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/pages/ReportsnReports/191441427571689
Contact: Mr. Priyank 7557 Rambler road, Suite 727, Dallas, TX 75231 Tel: +1-888-391-5441 Visit Our Market Research Blog [http://www.reportsnreportsblog.com  ]
 Subject Codes: PC/t.110912041021454, PR/dest.Public, PT/lang.en, RE/Texas, RE/China, IN/FOD, IN/ALT, IN/GRE, SU/SVY

	Tags: Eco-friendly, ecofriendly

     




Indonesia to host conference on forest restoration


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 12:50:29 +0000
Ecofriendlytip.com




JAKARTA (Xinhua) – Indonesia will host an international conference on forest restoration on Monday, the country’s largest news portal detik.com quoted an official as saying on Sunday.

The International Conference on Forest Restoration for People, Biodiversity and Environmental Service will be conducted by the Forestry Ministry in cooperation with the Environmental Leadership and Training Initiative (ELTI) and the Agriculture Institute of Bogor.
“The conference will be attended by more than 300 participants from 10 countries, the U.S., the Philippines, Indonesia, Britain, Australia, Costa Rica, Germany, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, and Singapore, ” said Head of Public Relation at the ministry Masyhud.
The conference will also promote Indonesia’s genuine flora and fauna.
Masyhud also said that Singapore was invited as the country still has natural forest of 3,043 hectares in Bukit Timah Nature Reserve. The country does not “interrupt” the area even though its development is very fast.  

	Tags: agriculture institute, biodiversity, bogor, bukit timah nature reserve, cooperation, detik com, elti, environmental leadership, environmental service, flora and fauna, forest restoration, forestry ministry, hectares, indonesia, jakarta, natural forest, nigeria, philippines, public relation

     






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


