2009  September | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Early Santa Ana Wind Event Sparks up Ventura County
1 comment






A Santa Ana wind fueled fire is burning out of control in Ventura County in thin fuel between the communities of Moorpark and Fillmore. The Guiberson Fire, also called the Fillmore Fire by local (L.A.) news stations has burned nearly 2,000 acres. The fire began along Guiberson Road mid morning today.
No structures have burned however there are two minor firefighter injuries and no civilian injuries so far.
The cause of the fire is reported to be “manure spontaneous combustion”. I have never heard of that before but if you look at the Wikipedia page for manure it seems plausible.
Local weather.Local TV coverage here and here.
Two other smaller fires have made news in Southern California in Riverside County today but both are going nowhere. The first day of Fall, the first Santa Ana wind event, the first wind driven fires of late 2009. Ominous!




Posted by Mike
on 09/22/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Santa Ana winds



When Swine Flu Visited Our House
2 comments






My college freshman son called home during his second week of his first semester advising us that he was ill. In the morning I drove the 60 miles to his school to retrieve him and drove straight to his doctor’s office.
Though he is 18 he will continue to see his long time pediatrician for at least a couple of more years. Two pediatricians convened and the diagnosis was H1N1, or Swine Flu.
The two concluded he would be a candidate for Tamiflu since he had mononucleosis early in the summer.
I asked the doctors why they did not administer a quick flu test to confirm the diagnosis and they said flatly, it’s summer, he has the flu and there are no other flu’s going around.
Her boss, my son’s primary physician added the only flu candidates being confirmed are those hospitalized. This decision was made on the state (California) and county (Fresno) level.
Why is this you might ask? Because they don’t want a panic. If the true level of positive cases was known it could create a run on emergency rooms and outpatient or urgent care clinics. Since this is a mild strain for the most part there is no real need to sound an alarm that might send everyone that sneezes to a clinic.
So what we have is a silent pandemic. People in the county are sick. In a recent visit to one of my doctors I waited 2 hours to see a physicians assistant, not my primary who told me she had seen 10 flu cases before 11 am.
The week before I visited another of my doctors (yeah I have a couple) and she told me one of her friends at a local hospital mentioned the more serious cases are seen in the morbidly obese. Most patients requiring assisted ventilation are the extremely overweight. No one knows why. Pregnant women as we know are another group susceptible to H1N1.
My son spent 3 days on the couch in the front room where his mother and I took care of him. Fever never went much higher than 102 and the vomiting and lower bowel discomfort was minimal after the second day. By the end of the third day he migrated to his old room and by the fourth day he wanted to get back to his campus.
Tamiflu may have hastened the speed of his recovery and contributed to keeping the symptoms from getting out of hand. Tamiflu claims to reduce the length of the flu by a day to a day and a half. It helps keep symptoms cooler as well, but not by much.
No one else in our home was affected. Neither me, my wife or our high school junior got it. The CDC says there is a 20% chance of a family member contracting the Swine Flu from another household member.
World FluTracker Map





Posted by Mike
on 09/20/2009 •
		Filed under: H1N1, Swine Flu



Bear With Me
4 comments






I am in the process of changing my blog host and name. I recently changed the name to FirefighterBlog.com as the formal name but in the process left the Blogger domain open to anyone that wanted it.
Thankfully I caught that error and reclaimed the Blogspot domain, restoring the name before it became reincarnated under the direction of someone else.
The blog is #1 on Google for all Firefighter Blogs for what that is worth. This body of work is important to me. The posts are indexed well in Google and that means a lot.
As much as I appreciate Google I am contemplating moving to another platform, one with more professional looking templates with three column options. Oddly after all these years Blogger has not changed the template offerings.
So wherever the blog goes it will bear the name FirefighterBlog.com and the Blogspot domain will stay here with a link to the new site.
As part of the move I will be included in a new fire blogging venture along with some other notable fire bloggers. Firefighter Blog will remain a stand alone site connected to a wider web venture. These changes should take the blog to a new level. I will post details soon.
I want to thank the core group of readers that  follow the site. You readers are the reason I blog.




Posted by Mike
on 09/19/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Never Forget
1 comment






On September 11 of each year I re-post the story sent to me by FDNY Firefighter Tommy Dunn shortly after the terrorist attacks on 9/11/2001.
Firefighter Dunn was there that day, a first responder who could have easily suffered the same fate as the 343 firefighters that died that day. He nearly did. Please read Tommy Dunn’s incredible story and as you do think of the fallen Brothers. Their stories would have been similar, stories of brave acts by men just doing their job.
Thank you Tommy. God Bless you my friend.
by Tom Dunn, FDNY Firefighter
“September 11, 2001, 0000 hrs. FF Dunn relieves FF Jacobs on house watch dept., personal quarters, in good order.”
That’s the entry I made in the company journal when I took over house watch at midnight.  
The night tour was pretty slow, we had a couple runs–nothing worth talking about. At about 8 AM we received an EMS run for a cardiac. To tell you the truth, I don’t even remember this run, but I know we had it because I made the entry in the book. When we returned to quarters the day tour was already in. I was working a 24 that day, so I would be staying on duty. It was probably about 8:30. I remained at the housewatch and monitored the radio. The other guys were in the kitchen reading papers and drinking coffee. 
At approximately 8:50 everything got very crazy. Someone yelled from the kitchen “Tommy, turn on the TV!” I did and saw that one of the towers was on fire. I had no idea what happened, just that it was on fire. The red phone went off announcing that a second alarm had been transmitted for box 8087 The World Trade Center. About a minute past and again the phone went off stating now that a third alarm had been transmitted. Almost immediately the computer went off “Battalion!” followed by the two tone noise that means we have received an alarm. I scanned the job to see if we were going, we weren’t, just the chief. I acknowledged the alarm read the job over the loud speaker and rang the four bells that signaled just the Chief was going. I ripped the ticket off the printer, opened the door and got the Chief and aides radios that I had placed on the charger. The Chief on duty that day was Battalion Chief Joseph Grislazk and his aide was Firefighter Michael Bocchino. I gave the Chief the ticket and said “go get em boys, wish we were going.” They grabbed their gear got in the car and drove off. 
That was the last time anyone from our company would see them.  
It was approximately 8:55. The chief had left. I went back to housewatch and was looking at the TV. I started to get excited because I started to think we might get a chance to go. I got my bunker gear close by and then realized, “Damn, I have control.” This meant I was the last one on the hose line if we went to a working fire. I knew that it was tour change and I hinted to the LT on duty, Lt. Auciello. I said “Hey, Lou, are we gonna keep the same riding positions or switch ‘em up for the day tour?” I was hoping to get the knob because I knew my groups were working and that means you usually get the knob. “OK,” he replied, “Dunn, you got the knob, Jacobs, you back him up, Murray control, Winkler, you’re driving.” 
I was happy mission accomplished. I went back to the TV to see what was going on and I now heard that the second tower had been hit by another plane, this was the first point I had heard that this may be some sort of terrorist attack. The phone rang and I answered it. It was my brother, he was saying he was on the west side highway and that the World Trade Center was on fire. I said I know and that I thought we might be going. 
I was still on the phone with him when the computer went off “ENGINE!” Followed by the two tones.”Jimmy I gotta go. We are going. I love ya, bro,” I said and hung up. I did the same routine, acknowledged the alarm read the ticket over the loud speaker, rang the bell once which meant the engine was going, ripped the ticket and opened the door. I gave the ticket to the LT got my gear and got on the rig. It was 9:10. We exited the firehouse and headed down Prospect Ave. to the Prospect Expressway. The Expressway had some light traffic that we were able to get through with the use of the lights and sirens. I continued to suit up getting the bunker gear on, hood, checking for my gloves, flashlight and helmet. We hit the merge of the Prospect Expressway and the Brooklyn Queens Expressway. There was heavy traffic almost at a stand still. Winkler weaved in and out of the traffic and got to the HOV lane, which was a little easier to get through. 
This was the first glance we got of the actual towers. I stuck my head out of the window and I could see that the towers were really going, a lot of smoke showing. I took a couple pictures. We were all getting psyched up and yelling and trying to get ourselves pumped up for the job. Brooklyn called us over the department radio and instructed us that we were not to go directly to the Trade Center but to help set up a staging area on the Brooklyn side of the Battery Tunnel. I was pretty upset at the time, because, to tell you the truth, I thought that doing this might have taken us out of the picture and we wouldn’t get a chance to go to work. Looking back now this saved our lives. 
We made it to the tunnel and parked right down the block from L101 quarters. We were to stay there and wait for the Battalion Chief for further orders. It was approximately 9:20. We were the first ones to reach the staging area and units started to show up and we all got out of the rigs and began talking and looking at the Towers. L102 was there and my friend Pat O’Brien was working so I spent most of the time with him. I don’t remember exactly what we talked about but it was probably how we couldn’t believe this was happening and if we thought they would send us. 
I don’t remember being scared, just really anxious to get to work and get started. I took another couple pictures and rechecked my gear. John Winkler, our driver, yelled over 240 “let’s start getting ready, they are going to send us.” We went back to the rig and another ticket came over the computer telling us to respond along with engine 201 to the command post at West Street and Albany Street. It was 9:45. 
We started to pull out and I waved to Pat and we headed into the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. There was no traffic because the tunnel had been closed to emergency traffic only for some time now. I would say it probably took us 3 minutes to make our way through the tunnel and out on to West Street. We proceeded down West Street and past Albany Street (there was nobody there but we could see a Chief the next block up) to Liberty. L113 was parked maybe a 100 feet from the south foot bridge and we were going to pull right up behind them when a cop motioned for us to stop where we were. We did and got out of the rig. 
At my feet when I exited the rig was what looked like a piece of one of the air planes. We proceeded to get our hose rollups, put our masks on and walked to the front of the rig. At this point I could see why the cop had stopped us, there was a body directly in front of our rig. It was one of the jumpers from the upper floors and the best way I can describe it is that it looked like a dead animal that you might see on the side of the highway that had been hit by a couple of cars or trucks. 
At this point I began to get my bearings. OK, we were on West Street (West Side Highway) between Liberty Street and the southernmost foot bridge. I could see the Marriott and both of the towers and they were both going. There were fires in the street and I could see other units in the area. There were several more bodies that were in the same shape as the one near our rig that were further down West Street.
 
We proceeded to the Chief’s car, which was about 100 feet from our rig. There were three people there, two Chiefs and an aide. I did not know them. I think they were Manhattan Chiefs. We announced to the Chief who we were and he told us to stand by while he radioed to find out where we were needed. We listened to the radio traffic and he patiently attempted to reach a Chief that was in the south tower to see where he needed us. 
While we waited I kept looking up and at this point I started to get a little nervous because it was then that I realized the magnitude of this fire and that we were about to enter these buildings that looked more like war zones than any fire ground I had ever seen. My attention turned back to the radio and I heard the Chief from inside saying that we were to start walking up because it was going to take us about an hour to even get to the point he was at. The Chief said “10-4″ and proceeded to brief us. 
“OK, 240 your going up, you don’t need the roll ups, just your air, keep your heads up on the way in because a firefighter was already killed by a jumper. Prepare yourself–this is going to be very gruesome. God be with you!” At this point I began to get really nervous. I mean, here was a Chief with probably 30 years on the job saying stuff like that, and I began to wonder what he knew that I didn’t, I would have much rather if he said “Go get ‘em, boys!” or something like that. But the choice of words made me feel like we were going somewhere that we weren’t coming back from. My heart was going a million miles an hour and I remember thinking, “Let’s just go get this over with.” 
I haven’t been to tons of fires in my life, but I do know that at the ones I have been to it was better to get right to work and stay busy than to sit around thinking about what lies ahead. 
We began walking toward the Tower. As we were crossing West Street toward the Tower, I heard a loud noise. I don’t know how to describe it, but the best thing I could think of to compare it to was a freight train. All of our heads quickly looked up in the direction of the noise. I could very clearly see that the top of the Tower had begun to fall and it was coming right down on us. People began yelling “Run!” and pushing each other to get everyone moving. I would say that we probably had 8-10 seconds of full sprint time before I began seeing debris and metal fall in my periphery. 
I ran across West Street toward the World Financial Center. As I ran I saw fellow firefighters and police and civilians diving under cars that lined the street. I remember very clearly making the decision that the cover of a car would not be enough and that I would try to make it to the building if possible. As I ran and approached the corner of West and Liberty I saw that there was a garage up ahead on the right and made that my goal. As I decided that, the sound of the collapse changed from that of a freight train to that of rushing air. 
The air instantly went pitch black and I fell to the floor at the point where the wall of the building met the sidewalk. I don’t remember ever stopping. I continued to crawl as fast as I could to the point where I had remembered seeing the garage door. I felt my way and got to the point where the garage was, but the roll down gate was down and there was no way to get in, but I later found out that I was between the gate and what was a guard post. 
Visibility was zero, and as I breathed I was gagging, choking on the air that was filled with debris. I stayed where I was and could feel other people huddled up along side me. Some were crying. Some were choking. All I remember doing for those couple seconds was cursing. I just said over and over (excuse the language) F***! F***! F***! 
In between gagging and coughing, I waited to die. I was waiting to be hit by some steel at any moment. At some point I turned on my flashlight and that gave me visibility for maybe 1 foot. I grabbed my mask, turned it on and put the face piece on. The face piece was completely filled with debris and when I inhaled I almost threw up in the mask. I removed the face piece and took off my glove to clear out what I could from the mask. All the while I could still hear debris falling and hitting nearby. 
I cleared out what I could from the mask and held the face piece to my face and took like two or three good breaths. I had probably four or five people right near me all of whom did not have masks, I think they were either police officers or fire marshals. I gave the face piece to them one at a time to let them get some air, but I guess they didn’t know how to use it because after they took their breath they didn’t hit the shut off, and the air would bleed freely. I pulled the face piece back and said that they would have to let me hold it while they took breaths so I could control it and not lose the air. 
At this point I was assuming we were trapped. Visibility was almost completely zero and debris was piled on top of us and against us and the building. The sound of debris subsided to what sounded like just smaller pieces and we continued to share my mask. I began to hear people in the area and it sounded like they were talking in our direction and they were saying, “You’re not trapped, come this way.” We followed the direction of the voice. I crawled, trying to feel my way and I ended up feeling a car door, so I knew that I was in the street and away from the building. 
I yelled for any other FD units and a guy came over to me. I think he was a truck officer. He asked if I knew where my other guys were and I said we were on West Street when it came down and that we all just ran. He said that West Street was gone and that I was to follow him. We were going to go around the rear of the Financial Center and try to get to another command post that he knew was north of the foot bridges. We began to walk down Liberty street and I was quickly separated from him because of all the people looking for hits off of our masks. 
The next 10 minutes or so were spent wandering around blindly trying to find out from any Fire Dept. personnel that I found if there was any type of roll call or meeting area that we should go to. Everyone I met was just as lost as I was. I had no radio because I had the nozzle that day, so I did my best to listen in on others’ radios, but traffic was broken up and all I heard were Maydays and broken transmissions. I found a boss who attempted to contact my unit over the radio several times but couldn’t get through because everyone was stepping all over each other. At this point I had completely lost my bearings due to wandering around and the poor visibility. I ended up hooking up with a guy from L122 and a guy from E58. The guy from 58 was bleeding from the head but it wasn’t bad. 
We wandered around trying to figure out where to go and then I heard the same sound I had heard earlier. I later found out that this was the second tower. Again visibility became zero and the process began again: coughing, gagging. Again people came to me for air. I remember wandering around and helping who ever I could, all the while trying to figure out just where we were and if there was a roll call being conducted anywhere. I ended up hearing of guys attempting to stretch hose line from the Hudson River and I joined in that. 
I think John Winkler was the first one I saw from Engine 240. He was getting onto a fire boat that we were stretching the line from and he was helping turn some wheel. We stretched 3-inch line for blocks and every couple blocks there was a pumper that we were relaying to. At this point I had found Winkler and Murray from my company. Lt. Auciello may have been there, too, but I don’t remember. 
We worked stretching these lines for what seemed like forever but was probably maybe an hour. I had already ditched my mask because it became too heavy and it was out of air anyway. We got the lines charged and I told Winkler that I was going off to try to find some water for the men. There was a cafe-type place that two women were in and they filled the bucke
ts that the bus boys carry with bottles of water, soda, and juice. I made my way back to the guys and gave them all out. While I was doing this I ran into my roommate George. I was so thankful that he was alive. 
We rested for a couple minutes and then Jacobs, Winkler, and me went to operate hose lines that were on West Street. We started to put out cars and vans that were burning along with rubbish in the streets. Each man in the area had their own hand line. We did this for awhile and Winkler said “Let’s go, guys are starting to search the rubble.” We made our way up to what I now know was the Vista Hotel. We grabbed tools along the way. I had a 6-foot hook and a rope. 
Visibility had improved greatly but there was still heavy smoke and the rubble was a little hard to maneuver around. We made our way fairly deep into the rubble and there were other FDNY members around searching as well. A Chief came by and was yelling “Everyone off the rubble–imminent collapse!” 
We began running as fast as we could down the rubble, trying to get back out to West Street near the south foot bridge, and as I was running I stepped in a hole and twisted my ankle. I continued to hop as fast as I could, but I knew I was hurt. I believed the foot was broken. We evacuated to an area that the Chief told us to go and I rested my ankle. We were now reunited with everyone except Sullivan. I heard he was evacuated due to his eyes getting debris in them. 
We waited for awhile for orders from a Chief but the LT said that I was to go get my foot looked at. I was removed by police to an area that EMS had set up to treat people and there was an EMS Chief there who said I was to be evacuated. I said I was not going and that they should just wrap the ankle up so I could go back. We argued and I said, “Chief, with all due respect, I’m not getting on that f***ing boat.” He said OK, that he would have the EMT wrap it for me and that I could go back if I stayed for a little while and drank a lot of water. I agreed. I drank some water and said I was going back and the chief turned to me and said ” Go with God!” This was the second time someone had said that to me that day. 
I hobbled the whole way back to where I last saw my guys. Nobody was there and guys that were in the area had said that they were evacuated by EMS. I wandered around for awhile looking for anyone that I knew. I found no one and attempted to find the EMS place I was at before to see if the guys were there. I couldn’t find where I had been and I ran into some police that said they would take me to the main evacuation point to see if they were there. One of them gave me a cell phone and told me to call someone at home to let them know that I was alive. 
I looked at the phone and for the life of me I couldn’t remember my own phone number. I was like a zombie. I made it to the evacuation point, which turned out to be the ferry terminal, and ran into this firefighter named Dog who was from Staten Island. He tried to help me find my guys but the EMS people we talked to said they were already evacuated and they didn’t know where they went. Dog was great, he stayed with me and convinced me to go to the hospital and that there was nothing I was going to be able to do at the Trade Center in this condition. 
I was evacuated by EMS to Lutheran Hospital. It was approximately 6 pm.
All rights reserved; Copyright Tommy Dunn
Two months later on November 12, 2001, Firefighter Dunn responded Code 3 to the crash site of American Airlines Flight 587. Tommy’s story is chilling.




Posted by Mike
on 09/11/2009 •
		Filed under: Sept.11



InciWeb: Brief History And Use of Fire Retardant
Comments Off






InciWeb offers a nice review of the history of the use of fire retardant, what it’s mixed with, why it’s colored, or not and what it does.
This is a departure from the normal day to day individual fire facts and maps InciWeb is known for. It’s nice to see them branching out into education.
——————————————————————————-
Station Fire Update as of this morning. (From InciWeb)

Image from Mt Wilson Towercam
Incident: Station Fire WildfireReleased: 18 hrs. ago
Los Angeles County Fire Department transitioned out of the Station Fire Unified Command at 6:00 pm last night, September 8, 2009 and the Los Angeles Sheriffs Department transitioned out at 6:00 am this morning. 
The fire is most active on the eastern and southern sides. Firefighters are planning to conduct a burning operation from an area east of Mt. Wilson to Red Box Rincon Road. Weather and burning conditions need to meet safety parameters for the burn out to take place. Air tankers and helicopters are committed to support today operation.
Over 400 firefighters will be creating a fuel break on the eastern edge of the fire in the San Gabriel Wilderness. The intended fuel breaks will extend from Mount Waterman southward through Twin Peaks to Cogswell Reservoir. Due to the difficulty of the terrain, the firefighters will be camping in the wilderness. 
Crews continue to patrol and mop-up along Angeles Forest Highway 2, westerly around to Mendenhall Peak, southerly to the Tujunga Canyons following along the fire perimeter easterly to Inspiration Point. Firefighters continue to extinguish and cool smoldering embers around much of the remainder of the fireline. Mop up extends 300 feet into the interior of the fire.
Suppression repair needs are being assessed in all areas where firefighting activities have ceased.
Additionally, road crews from CalTrans and Los Angeles County are beginning work to clear roads of debris, repair damage and replace guard rails. Utility companies are beginning assessments which will lead to repair of powerlines and other utilities.
Various road closures remain in effect for safety purposes. Please see the following page for a complete list.
Fire Status
Fire Name: Station
Geographic Location: Hwy. 2 North of La Canada – Flintridge, CA
Acres Burned: 160,357
Start Date: August 26, 2009
Time: 3:20 p.m.
Percent Contained:  62
Estimated Containment Date 9/15/09
Cause:  Arson
Injuries: 12
Structures Threatened: 3,850
Commercial Bldgs. Threatened: 100
Residences Destroyed: 78
Residences Damaged: 13
Commercial Prop. Destroyed: 2
Commercial Property Damaged: 1
Outbuildings/Other Destroyed: 87
Outbuildings/Other Damaged: 30
Resources
 
Approximate Personnel Assigned: 4,497
Helicopters: 20
Air Tankers: Available
Engines: 220
Hand Crews: 127
Dozers: 53
Cost to Date: $57,603,000




Posted by Mike
on 09/09/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Changing Site Name
5 comments






I am in the process of moving the formal name of the website to FirefighterBlog.com. If I don’t blow up the site by making this change I’ll be lucky. I am not a techie and issues of Hosts and CNames are Chinese to me.
If you found yourself reading this then it worked.




Posted by Mike
on 09/09/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Station Fire Moves Towards 2002 Curve Fire Burn
1 comment






The Curve Fire burned over 20,000 acres in the Angeles National Forest along Highway 39 in September 2002.  It appears the Station Fire is destined to meet the old burn as it moves steadily towards the mountain highway. Early on in the Station Fire Commander Dietrich stated his intention to keep the fire west of Highway 39.
Curve Fire can be seen in green in the image (click to enlarge)
I expect Dietrich has people on Highway 39 and has pulled up the old Curve Fire maps to look at old fire roads, breaks and reports. Recall Dietrich’s tactics from the Zaca Fire when he drew the line in the sand on that fire’s advancement at Highway 134 above Ojai. A fierce battle was waged by hundreds of firefighters and numerous aircraft on Highway 134 and the 240,000 acre monster fire died there.
The Fire has burned over 157,000 acres and is just over 50% contained. The latest InciWeb update has a detailed discussion of the fire’s overnight activity and the Station Fire perimeter. That map is posted below.





Posted by Mike
on 09/06/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Station Fire, Zaca Fire



Station Fire Flair Up, Advancing Eastward
Comments Off






Station Fire Incident Commander Mike Dietrich stated at his 5:30 press briefing tonight, “We have not yet turned the corner on this fire”.
The Mercury News reports per Dietrich that the fire has advanced to the east and southeast. The fire is now less than 5 miles from the community of Juniper Hills in the Pleasant View Ridge Wilderness Area.  As well, “crews also were fending off new fire activity on the southeastern end of the fire and trying to keep the blaze from burning into Santa Anita Canyon and Chantry Flats north of Arcadia and Monrovia.”
This kind of reminds me of the Zaca Fire. When it looked like things calmed down it always turned out to be a headfake. Recall that fire burned for two months only 70 miles north of the Station Fire ground.
Another great Station Fire news source is the Mt Wilson Observatory fire blog.
The beast still lives! Towercam image from 20:11 hrs Sept 5.




Posted by Mike
on 09/06/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Station Fire



Station Fire Time-Lapse Video
Comments Off






Unreal, no real words to describe this time lapse video of the Station Fire.
Martin Mars over Mt Wilson




Posted by Mike
on 09/03/2009 •
		Filed under: Martin Mars, Station Fire



Yosemite's Big Meadow Fire (update)
Comments Off






InciWeb reports the fire is over 7,000 acres and is at 70% containment. There is an interesting image on InceWeb that paints a good picture of what the firefighters are dealing with in terms of terrain and fuels.
I played around with Google Earth and thought these views from above the Valley looking west were pretty amazing. Basically the fire has blocked off the entrance to Yosemite Valley. Though the park remains open the fire has to be choking visitors, park workers and area residents with smoke. What a shame.

Even through digitally enhanced imagery the grand landscape of the Valley represents well.  (Click the images)





Posted by Mike
on 09/03/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Big Meadow Fire, Park Service Screw Ups, Yosemite



Station Fire Maps, Google Earth Views, Discussion
3 comments






The LA Times reports the Station Fire is approaching Santa Anita Canyon above Sierra Madre. Eighty historic cabins in the Chantry Flats pack station campground are threatened. According to the Times firefighters have been prepping the area for days in anticipation of the fire’s arrival. Pack animals have been relocated and the cabins have been made fire ready.
For perspective I grabbed some views from Google Earth and pinned the Santa Anita Dam and Chantry Flats campground. If you click on the images below you can see just how close the fire is to the canyon and campground.
Mt Wilson is the peak just above Santa Anita Canyon. Though firefighters have had days to prepare for the fire their task is no easier than what others have faced elsewhere on the fire. It’s the same fuel, fuel that hasn’t burned in decades.
The image below shows how far east the fire has advanced. The eastward path is likely the lowest priority for Commander Dietrich’s team. He already alluded to Highway 39 as the outer boundary of the eastern advance
Residents of the San Gabriel Valley should see plenty of flame activity tonight.

It’s difficult to comprehend this fire stretches from Sylmar to Monrovia, over 21 miles!
[googlemaps http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=sylmar+to+monrovia+ca&sll=34.224378,-118.214174&sspn=0.279332,0.617294&ie=UTF8&t=h&ll=34.224861,-118.215637&spn=0.272517,0.439453&z=11&output=embed&w=640&h=480]




Posted by Mike
on 09/03/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Google Earth, Station Fire



Yucaipa's Pendleton Fire
3 comments






Cal Fire is hitting the 640 acre Pendleton Fire as skillfully as they put down the adjacent 1,000 acre Oak Glen incident the day before. They make the near impossible look easy. The well trained and determined firefighters of Cal Fire are tasked with responding quickly to extinguish flames in a safe and expedient manner and that’s what they did here.
There are still pockets of fire but with 40 engines, 50 hand crews and 8 bulldozers this one should be in hand soon.
Pendleton Fire information from Cal Fire.
Last Updated:   September 1, 2009 7:13 am Date/Time Started:  August 31, 2009 3:30 pmAdministrative Unit:  CAL FIRE San Bernardino UnitCounty:  San Bernardino CountyLocation:  YucaipaAcres Burned:  640 acresContainment  640 acres – 45% containedThreatened:  400 residences threatened.Evacuations:  Wildwood Canyon evacuatedCause:  Under InvestigationCooperating Agencies:  CAL FIRE, USFS, San Bernardino County Oes, Riverside County OES. San Bernardino County Sherrif’s Office, City of YucaipaEngines:  40Fire crews:  50Helicopters:  1Dozers:  8
The image above is Google Earth with USFS KML files. The image below is generated by GeoMac software.
The images below were shot overnight by Photojournalist Jody Gomez on the Pendleton Fire.
How do you nominate a photo for Pulitzer consideration. The image below is that good. Don’t you think?

Photos used with written permission.




Posted by Mike
on 09/01/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, fire photos, Oak Glen Fire, Pendleton Fire



Tanker 979 (747 Supertanker) Maiden Fire Drop
5 comments






MyFoxLA was the first to follow the Supertanker as it circled the Station Fire and made its first drop on a live fire. This day has been long in coming for the people at Evergreen Aviation in Marana Arizona.
The tanker offers up 20,000 gallons per load. Consider that Tanker 910, the DC-10 Supertanker delivers 12,000 gallons.
There is a new weapon over California fires and it is about time.




Posted by Mike
on 09/01/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, DC-10 Supertanker, Station Fire, Tanker 910, Tanker 979



Oak Glen Under Siege
Comments Off






The apple growing community of Oak Glen is in the path a a wildfire that started yesterday.
InciWeb has details.
The Oak Glen Fire is under the jurisdiction of CalFire. It started on Sunday August 30, 2009 at 1:45 pm in the hills south of Potato Canyon Road and Oak Glen Road about 4 to 5 miles north of Beaumont and Banning. Mandatory Evacuations are in effect for the south and southeast portions of Oak Glen and voluntary evacuations for the remainder of Oak Glen.
Basic InformationIncident Type WildfireCause Under InvestigationDate of Origin Sunday August 30th, 2009 approx 01:45 PMLocation 4-5 miles north of BeaumontIncident Commander Jeff VeikCurrent SituationTotal Personnel 1,024Size 1,000 acresPercent Contained 25%Fuels Involved Heavy chaparral, oak woodland and mixed pines.Fire Behavior Today, firefighters face high temperatures and low humidity, rugged terrain, and very dry and flammable vegetation that in many instances has not burned since 1924. Fire is fuels and topography driven.Significant Events Aggressive fire fighting and air attack made good progress on the fire. Poor humidity recovery and heavy, old fuels have promoted active burning last night and significant increase in acreage. Firefighters are on the line today constructing containment line around the fire with the help of the hand crews and the bulldozers. Coordination with Sheriff on evacuation continues as needed.Planned Actions Structure protection, construction of control lines on all divisions.Growth Potential HighTerrain Difficulty Extreme.Remarks 
Road Closures– Oak Glen Road from Chagall Street to Wildwood Canyon Road. Large animals can be taken to the Yucaipa Equestrian Center 13273 California Road. For animal emergencies related to the fire, call San Bernardino County Animal Control 1-800-472-5609. 1024 personnel, resources assigned: 87 engines, 6 water tenders, 41 hand crews, 8 dozers, 10 helicopters, 6 airtankers, one 747, and Martin Mars and DC-10. One home damaged.
Current WeatherWind Conditions 14 G16 mph WTemperature 100 degreesHumidity 6%







Posted by Mike
on 09/01/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Oak Glen Fire

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















