




Start date
End date



Apply date range












 Login Register 
 Apps & Plugins Help Forums Contact White label Translate Terms  Marketshare










Real time web analytics

    378,466    web sites depend on
    Clicky Web Analytics to monitor, analyze, and react to their visitor traffic in real time.
    What are you waiting for?

  


Register now »
 Learn more


 Try the demo   
 Compare











The best dashboard



Data on the go





Up close and personal



Powerful segmentation





Real time goals & campaigns



Twitter keyword monitoring




Why Clicky?
Clicky is designed to be the easiest web analytics service you've ever used.
Services like Google Analytics do everything except take out the trash, but you probably don't know what any of the data means.
With Clicky, everything just makes sense. Register now and see for yourself.

What are people saying?
Clicky has an adorable and easy to use interface with traffic reports that organize data in such a way that makes it so easy to analyze and learn about your visitors. I find Integration with Twitter a very useful add-on. It's a great service and I'm spreading the word about it!-- Zorica, skillsdivision.com
As a newbie information marketer, GetClicky helps make my site tracking so much easier.  Everything is in one place and the data is presented in a very clear and easy to understand manner. Thanks for such a fantastic tool!-- James, royalbouquetflorist.com
Read more testimonials »





 -VS- The Other Guys




   
 Google  
 Woopra  
 Chartbeat  
 Piwik  
 StatCounter  
 SiteMeter  


Detailed information about every visitor









Log custom data for every visitor (usernames, emails, etc)









Track outbound links









Track downloads









Track Javascript and Flash events









Video analytics









Mobile hardware reporting









Visitor hostnames and organizations









Detailed info on organizations (address, phone number, revenue, etc)









Twitter analytics - monitors and summarizes conversations about your web site or other topics of interest









Dedicated iPhone version









Dedicated version for other mobile devices









Create extra user accounts withaccess to specific sites









Alerts via email/mobile









Alerts via desktop, sounds, and more









Powerful filtering and segmentation









Developer API









The best bounce rate metric in the biz









Goals and conversions









Dynamic goals (don't need to be pre-defined)









Split testing









Campaign tracking









Supports Google Analytics campaign tags









Customizable dashboard









bit.ly integration









Search keyword rankings









Favorites









Email reports









PDF reports via export interface or email









100% Flash free for a great experience on your phone/tablet









IP anonymizer option for use in countries like Germany with strict privacy rules

n/a

n/a





IP tags









IP filters









Real time data









Live view of every individual visitor on your site right now









Widgets to put on your web site









Get your stats via RSS feeds









Aggregate (multi-day) view for all data









Data export









Works with visitors who have disabled JavaScript









White label as your own product









Official WordPress plugin for easy integration with your blog









FeedBurner RSS stats integration









Clean, modern interface









Public statistics









Free version available











 = Beta feature / No documentation / Kinda sorta / Requires hack or third party plugin
Chart last updated August 26 2011, and accurate to the best of our knowledge. If you believe anything to be incorrect, please contact us.




 Register now
 Try the demo
 Learn more
 Compare

 

  
    
 






