Elvis Presley – Movies and Songs




thingstodoinbostonthisweekend.com things to do in boston this weekend



Follow me on TwitterRSS Feeds

Home
hotels in boston
cheap hotels in boston
Privacy Policy
















Hometownstations.com-WLIO- Lima, OH News Weather Sports1 mistake costs Shields, Rays »



Elvis Presley – Movies and Songs









I just finished watching a movie called Elvis made in 1979 starring Kurt Russell. And it just hit me that after all these years,this is probably still the BEST offering so far about Elvis’s life. Imagine, no big Hollywood Studio has done anything that beats it.
I’ve been following the career of this Kid from Tupelo since I was 10 years old. Some people might ask,why would anyone still be so fanatic or loyal to a celebrity after all these years? Well,I don’t think anyone really knows why it just seemed to happen one day at a time.
For me, I don’t think a day goes by that I don’t think of Elvis. I remember as a kid, growing sideburns and being kidded by the older kids. in 1964 in high school many of the kids said Elvis was over and the Beatles were in. But there still were those like me that thought otherwise.
Than in 1970 my wife and I with two friends saw him in person at the Miami Beach Convention Center. I remember the feeling of anticipation sitting in my seat waiting for the show to begin. And that day in August of 1977 when I got a phone call from home asking me if I heard the news.
In 1995 my son graduated from a Naval Training School located just outside of Memphis, so we just had to visit Graceland. It was a little surreal walking through the house knowing Elvis had once lived there. when we came to the grave site, it was impossible to stop the tears from flowing.
Here’s a brief rundown of some of the Movies and Songs associated with the KING. Elvis Movies number 33, first in 1956 with love me Tender and last with Change of Habit in 1969. Plus two Documentaries,Elvis,That’s The way It is in 1970 and Elvis On Tour in 1972.
Elvis Songs number about 800 of recorded and/or performed songs beginning with That’s all right in 1954. His last studio album was moody Blue recorded between February 1976 and April 1977.
It is estimated that Elvis has sold enough records to circle the Earth three times over. although it is still a question of verification,it is believed Elvis Worldwide Record Sales have reached one Billion Records.
No one knows why people feel so strongly about Elvis, we just know we do and always will.
Elvis once said when giving a speech.
When I was a child, I was a dreamer. I read comic books and I was the hero of the comic book. I saw movies and I was the hero in the movie. Every dream that I ever dreamed, has come true a hundred times.
At the end he concluded with:
I learned very early in life that the day would never end without a song, so I keep singing a song.
19,710 Days a Elvis Fan. No end in Sight.
Elvis Presley – Movies and Songs














 

Share this post!

Twitter
Digg
Facebook
Delicious
StumbleUpon
Google Bookmarks
LinkedIn
Yahoo Bookmarks
Technorati Favorites



 Print article  
              This entry was posted by editor on August 16, 2011 at 11:15 am, and is filed under Uncategorized. Follow any responses to this post through RSS 2.0. You can leave a response or trackback from your own site.            







Comments (0) 






No comments yet.






















 













No trackbacks yet.












 

 

 

 




 

Recent CommentsRandom Search Termswho is the most trusted site to buy clenbuterolchris johnson holdoutpresenters espys 2011Russel Brand Arthur movie quote systems integrations professionalphiladelphia eagle wingsshannen doherty photosis Terrell Owens Playing football in 2011congenital syphilisdrew brees halftime statistics 9/8/11mad hungry pita chips 















   Amazon.com Widgets
 










Mystique theme by digitalnature | Powered by WordPress  RSS Feeds XHTML 1.1 Top




















