City Of Bastrop Official Website, Bastrop Texas 78602







Welcome to the Official Website of the City of Bastrop, Texas.   |        




  
  
 Home Page   |        




  
  
 Mission Statement   |        




  
  
 History






 





Search













City of Bastrop1311 Chestnut Street, P.O. Box 427Bastrop, Texas 78602 
(512) 332-8800















City Departments

City Council

City Charter


City Manager

City Secretary

Election Information
Code of Ordinances
Council Agendas & Minutes
Boards & Commissions
Forms & Applications
Ordinances


Code Enforcement

Convention and Exhibit Center

Electric Utility

Fairview Cemetery

Finance Department

Budget
Financial Report
Forms On-Line


Fire Department

Human Resources

Library

Main Street Program

Municipal Court

Citation Information
Offense & Fines List
Pay Fines Online


Parks Department

Park Locations
Park Board Meeting


Planning and Development

Code of Ordinances
Maps
Comprensive Plan & Ordinances
Planning Boards & Commissions
Online Payments of Planning Fees
Downloadable Files


Police Department

Animal Control


Public Works

Recreation - YMCA

Utility Services

Water/ Wastewater







For Residents

Mission Statement

City Councl Meeting Information

Public Notices

Bastrop Public Library

Recreation - YMCA

Police Services

Emergency Information

New Resident Information

Forms and Applications

Pay Bill Online

Utility Bill
Municipal Court Fines
Planning & Development Fees


Frequently Asked Questions







Doing Business

Bastrop Convention and Exhibit Center

Economic Development Corporation

Bastrop Chamber of Commerce







Planning a Visit ?

Bastrop Visitor Center

Bastrop Convention and Exhibit Center

Visit Downtown Bastrop






 

























I Want To...












APPLY FOR

Job Opening

CONTACT

City Council

Department Directory

Bastrop Convention and Exhibit Center

YMCA- Recreation

FIND

Agendas & Minutes

Bastrop Film Commission Guidelines

Boards & Commissions

City Charter

Election Information

Emergency Management Information

Open Records Request Information

Public Notices

LOCATE

Planning & Development Maps

Comprehensive Plan

City Park

Bastrop Convention and Exhibit Center

PAY

Utility Bill

Municipal Court Fines

Planning & Development Fees

RESERVE

Bastrop Convention and Exhibit Center

VISIT

Bastrop Visitor's Center

Bastrop PD on Facebook

VOLUNTEER

Boards & Commissions

Library























































   Directions to City Hall
Bastrop Films
F A Q
Agenda & Minutes
Newsletter
Local Weather



























News and Announcements
















                                  
- 



Emergency Communication


Stay tuned to media and Bastrop County Office of Emergency Management Facebook for informational updates at  http://tinyurl.com/4ypp5j4 . Other information is also being posted on the County website:www.co.bastrop.tx.us . School Information is available on BISD website: www.bisdtx.org .For additional information please call: 512-332-8814 & 512-332-8856.
 
Certain EVACUATED areas have been reopened, please check the Bastrop County Office of Emergency Management Facebook for an updated list. 
 
Donations for evacuees should be sent to: Bastrop Christian Ministrial Alliance, P.O. Box 876, Bastrop, Texas 78602. All First National Bank Branches are accepting checks for the Bastrop Christian Ministerial Alliance.
 
Evacuees can pick up their mail at the Post Office Annex here in the City of Bastrop (Farm St. & Main St.) Mail is available to be picked up Monday thru Friday 9:00am - 3:00 pm and Saturday 9:00 am until 1:00 pm.
For an updated list of road closures visit the TXDOT webpage. 






                                  
- 



Special Election - November 8, 2011


                                  The Bastrop City Council has called for a Special Election to be conducted on November 8, 2011.  Also available in Spanish translation.
                                  





                                  
- 



Annexation 2011


                                  The City will conduct Public Hearings Regarding the Annexation Map on September 13 and September 27. 
                                  


Read More...




 
















Property Tax and Budget Information








Budget and Tax Rate hearing to be held on September 13, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. at Bastrop City Hall.
Also, the Proposed Budget and Tax rate will be voted on at the September 27, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. at Bastrop City Hall.Property Tax Rate Information for the City of Bastrop - 2011
Notice of Public Hearing on Tax Increase
City of Bastrop FY2012 Proposed Budget          



 

















 





Documents





City of Bastrop, Texas
			  Powered By Revize 
			  
                
                Login









The City of Bastrop is assisting Bastrop County in every way possible with the wildfires and their aftermath. City staff and elected officials have been working as part of the emergency response team at the Convention Center since the City opened it for use as the command center.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FoQzpiLZuYs&sns=fb
The City of Bastrop's Water Supply has NOT been compromised by the recent and ongoing Bastrop Complex Fires. The City meets or exceeds all requirements and regulations set forth by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and your water is SAFE to drink. If you have any questions regarding the City's water supply, please contact (512) 332-8960 for more information. 
To check for the most recent information on the Bastrop Complex Fire or Union Chapel please look under our News and Announcements section on the City's website cover page. 


