15 unusual uses for your hair dryer on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Monday, September 12, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS







15 unusual uses for your hair dryer



editor


by Yahoo!Green, on Fri Sep 2, 2011 3:41pm PDT


754 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse











By Melissa Breyer
More
from Care2 Green Living blog
Handheld hair dryers were introduced for the domestic market in
1920, and since then countless hairdos have relied on that
combination of heat and air to achieve their coiffed
perfection.
But the humble blow dryer has plenty of other services to offer
around the house -- here are a handful of them:

If you need to quickly set the icing on a cake, the air and
heat of a hair dryer can quicken up the process.
If your cake won’t unstick from the cake pan, use your hair
dryer on the bottom of the pan then invert it, it should drop right
out.
Running an ice cream scoop under hot water helps, but you can
also try using a hair dryer on the carton to soften ice cream for
easy scooping.
Some people use pots of boiling water to quicken freezer
defrosting, but a hot hair dryer works even more quickly. (Be
careful of puddles of water and the dryer, though.)
Automatic ice-makers can get jammed with frozen ice; relieve
that with a long blast of hot air to melt unwanted icebergs.
Remove contact paper from shelves by heating it with the hair
dryer and gently working the edges up. Also works for bumper
stickers and other rogue sticky things.
Use a hair dryer to dust hard-to-dust items; the air will blow
the dust somewhere else, but hopefully somewhere else that is
easier to dust.
Personally, I like my kids’ crayon marks on my walls, but for
the rest of you: Heat the crayon marks until softened, then scrub
with hot water and detergent.
Old photo albums with magnetic pages can get stuck -- unstick
them with a blast from the hair dryer.
Spot-iron wrinkles by lightly dampening the area and then
heating the wrinkles with your dryer.
Wet boots, shoes, and sneakers can take on a terrible odor if
left to dry slowly -- alleviate that by drying them with your hair
dryer.
Winter can bring frozen windows and locks -- thaw them with a
hair dryer.
Window screens collecting dust and pollen? Blow it back to
whence it came.
Removing bandages can hurt more than the wound, so soften the
adhesive with a hair dryer first to ease the rip.
If you have trouble keeping a hot compress hot, keep your hair
dryer by you and reheat as necessary.

Bonus: For wrinkled ribbons and fabric belts, employ a curling
iron to straighten them out.
This is just a start, do you use your hair dryer in any
surprising ways? Leave a comment...
Related:

15 Brilliant Uses for Toothpaste

9 Awesome Uses for Junk Mail
47
Smart Uses for Salt
9
Surprising Uses for Beer

35 Uses for Kitchen Trash


Check out Yahoo! Green on Twitter and Facebook.

Related: reusing stuff, how-to, hair dryer





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 754 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by Daniell  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:44am PDT

i just used it to soften butter for making cookies. Needed room temp butter, but forgot to take it out earlier.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by tweedledee  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:46am PDT

I use my hair dryer to dry my body after a shower.  It is quite effective and on a cold day, it gets one warmer as well.  I also use it if I get chilled after being outside, a quick warmup.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Aaron Hoover  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:47am PDT

under number 5, whats the difference between ice and frozen ice?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by puff22  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:49am PDT

thaw frozen pipes, dry out phones that fell in water

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Nemo  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:56am PDT

This might be a good idea for a frozen lock, but PLEASE don't direct hot air from a hair dryer on a frozen window! It may crack it.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Tracie  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:57am PDT

Most of these tips are a waste of energy.  I don't care how little energy a hair dryer uses, it's still wasting it.  Especially if you are using it to defrost something.  That's absurd!  It would take a long time to defrost it.  Who wants to sit there holding a hair dryer to begin with?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Gordon Gardner  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:58am PDT

Used to have a Volvo that would get stubborn on damp mornings. The hair dryer would dry out the distributor and the car would start right away.My bathroom mirror is de-misted every morning with my hair dryer. Rarely use it on my hair.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by sweetgirl  Sat Sep 10, 2011 11:59am PDT

How about using it to dry nails after polishing them!! it's a faster way of drying them

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Monica L  Sat Sep 10, 2011 12:02pm PDT

We used a hair dryer to dry our X-rays for 2 years when our X-ray Processor broke because the office was going to change to digital X-rays. hihi.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by A  Sat Sep 10, 2011 12:04pm PDT

this was a main yahoo article on the front page slide show, and its interesting too! all others, even if theyre not so interesting, get hundreds of comments. so how come there r just 4 comments here??btw, really helpful, i never knew a blow dryer had so many purposes.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 754 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post














green pick of the day


10 do's and don'ts for fabulous summer feet



Pampering your feet isn't just an indulgence. Pedicures actually promote overall wellness. Here, a handy guideline for the prettiest–and healthiest–toes on the block.




Read more »



green fyi:

Neutrogena® Naturals skincare line offers pure, natural skincare with real results


Learn more »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »











Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


Billie Jean King's surprising secret to success

Ryan Gosling (and other celebrities) to the rescue! Heroic stars in action.‘Anderson’ Premiere: Winehouse Family Claims Drugs Did Not Cause Death


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of days 3 and 4

New York Fashion Week: The best of day 2The 9 Hottest Hair Colors for Fall 2011


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


Kathy Griffin's D-list stay-fit and fabulous tips(video)

5 Health Slip-Ups—Remedied25 simple ways to get more steps in your day


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Kate Winslet's Son Already Wondering if He's Gay At Age 7

The Second Day: Teenage filmmaker gives voice to children of 9/11As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory.


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Still Having Sex With Your Ex?

Woman calls guy she likes 65,000 times. That's a touch much.A 9/11 Widow Shares Her Tale Of Love From Beyond


More in Love + Sex »



Food


4 secrets to a perfect casserole

Deep-Fried Pimiento Cheese10 Quick and Easy School-Night Dinners


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


4 healthy, delicious ways to spice up oatmeal for kids

Strap on your baby and boogie!Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














 

