2009  January | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Kentucky's Katrina?
6 comments






Ice storms have killed dozens and tens of thousands are stranded in shelters or huddled in homes in Kentucky. The weather phenomenon has caused power outages to hundreds of thousands of homes in Kentucky and neighboring states.
The Star Tribune reports, “Thousands of people in ice-caked Kentucky awoke in motels and shelters, asked to leave their homes by authorities who said emergency teams in some areas were too strapped to reach everyone in need of food, water and warmth………..”
“………About 536,000 homes and businesses across Kentucky were without power, down from more than 600,000, the largest outage in state history.”
According to the media reports FEMA is nowhere to be found in some areas and local authorities in some townships have not fully accounted for all residents.
The Associated Press quotes the Grayson County Kentucky EMS Director; “National Guardsmen who have responded have no chain saws to clear fallen trees, and FEMA was still a no-show days after the storm.”
Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear says many residents that chose to stay in their homes are doing so in part because they don’t want to leave their pets. Lack of clean drinking water and food may force them from their homes but are there adequate shelter facilities for them to flee to?
This is where the Federal and State government have to step in. Remember the day after Katrina how the press were quick to blame the Federal government for the slow response. I’m wondering where the media is now with their complaints on this response. The President has been on National TV three times in the past 24 hours but he has not mentioned Kentucky once.
According to the FEMA website the president did sign an emergency declaration for parts of Arkansas on January 29. This from a storm on January 26. Red state Kentucky is definitely not front and center in his mind.
It’s nice to see the Red Cross on the scene.
UPDATE: Others are watching!Michelle Malkin posts a letter from Paducah. No Shep Smith, no Big 3 anchors, not even CNN.




Posted by Mike
on 01/31/2009 •
		Filed under: FEMA



San Diego Utility Suing Burned Out Homeowners
5 comments






San Diego Gas and Electric is going after homeowners that may have disregarded defensible space standards during the 2007 fire season. The complaints were filed in response to class action lawsuits filed against them.
According to San Diego Online  SDG&E has filed cross complaints against homeowners, local municipalities and even fire agencies in response to the lawsuits.
The utility is being blamed for starting the Witch and Rice Fires due to arcing wires. The utility argues the fires were spread in part by homeowners that were not in compliance with defensible space ordinances.
County and State ordinances define how property is to be cleared. Properly brushed and trimmed property is less likely to present a problem for adjacent properties. The utility will likely argue inadequate clearing by property owners added to the devastation. Embers from burning homes added more fuel to the fires and caused more collateral damage than would vegetation alone.
Technically they are correct and ultimately this could be a mitigating factor in a settlement negotiation.
How SDG&E could go after firefighters is a mystery to me and more than a stretch. Actions by firefighters in a fast running fire are not predictable or measurable and nearly impossible to duplicate. Conditions cannot be simulated.
Fire ground triage during a fast moving fire dictates which properties will be defended or not. A property out of compliance, shrouded in overgrown brush or trees will often be overlooked in favor of those more easily defended.
These decisions are always made with firefighter safety as the overriding factor.
Cal Fire Defensible Space Photos
As simple defense for homeowners is to pull up an overhead image from Google Earth taken pre-fire. The property was either in compliance or it wasn’t.
I applaud San Diego Gas and Electric for drawing non-compliant homeowners into the fray. It shines light on the defensible space issue.I hope the insurance industry is watching. Had they been inspecting their insured properties and forcing homeowners to comply with fire codes fewer homes would have burned.
As well firefighters would not have to make as many difficult save or burn decisions or God forbid suffer injury or death defending an un-defensible dwelling.




Posted by Mike
on 01/29/2009 •
		Filed under: Defensible space, Rice Fire, Witch Fire



Cal Fire Promo Video
6 comments






Cal Fire promotional video. I have to admit I felt a true sense of pride watching this 90 seconds of excitement. I like the choice of music, it reminds me of a track from the movie “Gladiator”!
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l_SX2ADG6vA&hl=en&fs=1]




Posted by Mike
on 01/23/2009 •
		Filed under: Cal Fire



California Drought Concerns
2 comments






Drought Monitor
The Wall Street Journal has a nice summary of the water concerns facing the Golden State including potential water rationing in some municipalities.
I look at drought from the point of view, no rain equals dry grass and low fuel moisture. Less rain means more downed and dead vegetation.  If this pattern sticks this will be another dangerous year for wildland firefighters.
I’d like to listen in on some of the Cal Fire 2009 strategy meetings. A continuing drought combined with budget cuts offer a tough challenge.
Update; Bolinas almost out of water, hills brown, almost like August!




Posted by Mike
on 01/16/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Drought



Twitter as Emergency Communication Platform
Comments Off






 Last week I mentioned I’d be leaning on Twitter as the 2009 wildfire season unfolds.
I have spent the past two days playing around on the platform. I opened a new account unrelated to firefighting and in less than 48 hours I have 24 “followers” in this new community.
Update: As of January 26 my new account has 215 followers and the account attached to this blog has 218.
Simple Twitter community building formula;

Think of any niche or subject and open an account
Post a few lines with your subject keywords
Search within Twitter for others that share your interest
Search lists of followers of your subject 
Follower others in your niche or subject 
Update frequently, take an interest in other in your community

Twitter updates can be texted straight to an account and the “tweet” is indexed in Twitter Search instantly.
FEMA, OES, and other government agencies understand the power of Twitter. These tech-stodgy offices are usually last to catch a wave. They are out front here.
UPDATE: Twitter ablaze with U.S Airways Hudson River plane crash updates;
*Information Week reports “Within minutes there were hundreds of Tweets about the crash, complete with pictures from eyewitnesses and even one person who was on a NYC ferry headed to the crash site to pick up passengers.”




Posted by Mike
on 01/14/2009 •
		Filed under: Blog, fire bloggers, Twitter



Bloggers As Journalists
2 comments






I make no such claim but the result of this lawsuit may vault me into this classification.
Who knows I might be looking for a roving “correspondent” in time. There are many stories unreported from behind the fire lines.




Posted by Mike
on 01/12/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Grim Realities, 114 On-Duty Firefighter Deaths in 2008
4 comments






The U.S. Fire Administration announces there were 114 LODD (line of duty) firefighter deaths in the U.S. in 2008.
Details are provided by the OH&S here.
Twenty six wildland firefighters died in 2008, more than double the 11 wildland firefighters that died in 2007.
Nine died when their Sikorsky helicopter went down in the Trinity Alps  near Junction City California in early August.
The following young firefighters and pilots died in the aircraft.
Shawn Blazer, 30 Medford, Ore.Scott Charleson, 25  Phoenix, Ore.Matthew Hammer, 23 from Grants Pass, Ore.Edrik Gomez, 19,  Ashland, Ore.Steven Renno, 21, Cave Junction, OreBryan Rich, 29, Medford, Ore.David Steele, 19, Ashland, Ore.Jim Ramage, Redding, CaRoark Schwanenburg, Lostine, OreGrayback Forestry




Posted by Mike
on 01/09/2009 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, LODD



Colorado Wildfires, 11,000 Evacuated? Huh?
1 comment






I’ll refer readers to Reuters and Google News regarding the Boulder area fires.January wildfires in Colorado. Almost as unexpected as wildfire on the Big Sur Coast in December or even April. This is Australia’s season in the wildfire sun, not the Rocky Mountain region.
I have been using Twitter (link fixed) more often lately. As the 2009 “fire season” progresses I intend to lean on Twitter more for collecting and disseminating wildfire news.
Have a look at the Twitter Search results for Colorado Wildfires. It’s pretty amazing.




Posted by Mike
on 01/08/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season, Twitter



H5N1 Bird Flu Virus Claims 19 Year Old In Beijing
1 comment






H5N1 Avian Flu is simmering in parts of the World. Are inhabitants in the Western Hemisphere concerned? Should we be?
With the expected role of first responders in mind it is important to stay up to date on this potential pandemic.
Today from Reuters we read of a young and otherwise healthy woman that died from the bird flu on Christmas Eve in Beijing.
“Hong Kong’s Center for Health Protection said the woman had had contact with poultry before falling ill.

China’s official Xinhua News Agency earlier reported that the woman from eastern Fujian province had bought nine ducks at a market in Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing, and then gutted the birds.

She gave three ducks to her father, uncle and a friend and kept the other six ducks, the agency reported.

It added that 116 people, including the patients 14 family members and neighbor and 102 medical workers, had been in close contact with the patient.”
It’s reassuring the victim’s 14 family members are in the clear so far but it has to be a concern to Chinese officials the H5N1 has visited the nations capital city.
In other H5N1 has news the Sunday edition of the L.A. Times reports;
“……..the virus appears to be entrenched in Indonesia, parts of China, Vietnam, Egypt and other countries where backyard flocks are more difficult to regulate than commercial chicken farms, according to the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization.
Though bird flu viruses are common, highly pathological ones such as the 1918 virus and H5N1 — which has been lethal to 100% of chickens infected and 63% of humans known to be infected — are rare.
Scientists have little experience with which to gauge how H5N1 will evolve.
But, Webster said, “We still have to treat this as a potentially very, very dangerous virus.”
In 2005 Hill & Associates issued a special report that discussed the pandemic potential as it relates to businesses with an International presence. The report singles out which affected countries are best prepared to deal with requisite quarantines, vaccination programs and an infrastructure capable of confronting a pandemic.
China, Pakistan, Thailand score low by H & A readiness standards. Japan, Australia and South Korea score higher and stand ready to confront a widespread outbreak. H & A did not address the readiness of the U.S. in their study.
The Times article points out that vaccination against H5N1 is tricky. Current vaccines for birds and humans is designed for many flu subtypes. Undisciplined or rampant vaccination programs as opposed to regionally administered programs invite the evolution of resistant strains. The effectiveness of these vaccines require a coordination between countries that does not exist at the moment.
The FDA has approved a bird flu vaccine but the vaccine is not being mass produced and there appears to be no huge stores being held.
Government operated AvianFlu.gov is an excellent resource for anyone seeking information on H5N1.
First responders are encouraged to review the IAFF Pandemic Flu resource pages. The IAFF has been proactive in providing information on H5N1 from the start.
The question remains, is H5N1, Avian flu, Bird flu something to worry about by North Americans? Absolutely. We should not be complacent just because the virus has not crossed our borders.
If it does we know very little of the vaccine is on hand. The vaccine on hand would likely go to hospital and first responders, this we expect. How fast could the vaccine manufacturer roll out product? Is there enough Vaccine on hand for first responder family members? How fast would anti-viral drugs like Tamiflu and Relenza disappear from pharmacies?
The case of this young lady in Beijing serves as a reminder the subject is still very much alive. Pandemic is an ugly word no one likes to talk about. As long as the potential for one exists the discussion must be kept alive.




Posted by Mike
on 01/06/2009 •
		Filed under: bird flu, H5N1



D.C. First Responders Gear Up For Mall Party
1 comment






 The District of Columbia is gearing up for an unprecidented crowd control event, the inauguration of the new president. The Washington Post details some areas of concerns for security and medical response teams including the good folks at DCFD.
“The threats aren’t limited to violence or terrorism: Freezing or rainy weather could send people fleeing for shelter or medical attention. The D.C. Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department is among the many agencies across the region gearing up for demands. And the crush of traffic will put additional pressure on police and transportation officials.Security officials might get one big break: Compared with some previous inaugurations, there are no indications that large numbers of demonstrators are coming to Obama’s swearing-in, authorities said.”
Sounds like a nightmare, God speed to our first responder Brothers and Sisters.




Posted by Mike
on 01/04/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 1 day ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 2 days ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 2 days ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 1 week ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video
Willie Wines Jr. 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



State Fire News Roundup…

September 11th: One Victim Identified in Triple Fatal MVA
September 9th: Hundreds Attend 9/11… (more)




Zen Zone #30…

When you are challenged with a problem, it always helps to maintain perspective.… (more)




Report: Driver Error Blamed For Missouri…

Three firefighters in the truck were injured.… (more)




9/11 Commemoration … Firegeezer is…

The average citizen doesn't comprehend the cohesiveness that firefighters and police officers have… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















