Fresh crews, light winds help fight Texas wildfires - chicagotribune.com













 





Politics





Home


Mobile


Alerts


Trib Nation


TribU


Weather


Obits


Horoscopes


Ask Amy


Columns


Photos


Video


Advertise


Subscribe


Help




News


Breaking


Chicagoland


Suburbs


Nation & World


Obits


Clout


Politics


Watchdog


Maps & apps


Schools


Religion


Lottery




Business


Breaking


Problem Solver


Your Money


Technology


Chicago top stocks


Promotions


Executives to know


Business lunches


Columnists




Sports


Breaking


Bears


Bulls


Blackhawks


Cubs


White Sox


College


Preps Plus


Soccer


Golf


Smack


Scores


Columnists




A&E


Breaking


TV


Movies


Music


Theater


Food & Dining


Books


Celebrity


Events


Arts


Comics


Puzzles


Metromix


Columnists




Travel


News & Tips


Weather


Chicago travel


Midwest travel


U.S. travel


International travel


Family travel


Warm escapes


Deals




Health


Local health news


Aging well


Booster Shots


Diabetes


Diet & Nutrition


Fitness


Sex & Relationships


Julie's Health Club


Investigations & Data




Opinion


Editorials


Commentary


Letters


Share


Change of Subject


Page's Page


Minority of One


Stantis Cartoons


Columns


Blogs


ChicagoNow




Real Estate


For Sale


Apartments


Buyers Guide


Sellers Guide


Communities


Foreclosures


Home & Garden


Latest Sales


News


Advertise




Cars


Cars for Sale


Car Care


Dealer Directory


Dealer Specials


News


Recalls


Reviews


Traffic


Advertise




Jobs


My CareerBuilder


Find Jobs


Job Recommendations


Post Resumes


Advice & Resources


For Employers


Advertise




Shopping


Daily Deals


Brand-Name Offers


All Offers


Shopping Events


Apparel


Beauty


Homeware


Electronics


Kids


Food


Tribune Store






































Advanced Search



Advanced Search
X







include all of these words: 
include any of these words: 
include this exact phrase: 
exclude: 

 Select a date range


this week
past 30 days
past 3 months
past year




 Create a custom date range

From: 
To: 


















CTA art work? It's coming to an 'L' near you
CTA riders have long complained that trains could use a new coat of paint. On Saturday, one Orange Line train will get more than just paint to morph into a mobile art gallery.



Miss Universe 2011 Pictures




Chicagoland pictures from the 9/11 anniversary
 






Home
            
        
            
                
                
                    
                    
                     
                         > News 
                    
                
            
        
            
                
                
                    
                    
                        
                        
                             > Politics




Fresh crews, light winds help fight Texas wildfires















Comments

5

































Related


Video: Video Report: Fatal Texas wildfires



Graphic: Graphic: A $5 billion dry spell



Photos: Photos: Wildfires scorch Texas



Graphic: Graphic: Texas wildfires


Video: Wildfires


See more stories »


X


Graphic: Even fire-resistant homes can burnGraphic: How cloud seeding worksNational Interagency Fire Center






Topics



                Disasters
              



                Washington, DC
              



                Wildfires
              


See more topics »


X



                  Natural Disasters
                





                  Barack Obama
                





                  Rick Perry
                





                  White House
                











Jim Forsyth
Reuters
4:39 p.m. CDT, September 10, 2011




                           SAN ANTONIO (Reuters) - More than a thousand firefighters, aided by lighter winds, on Saturday began to beat back raging wildfires that have scorched Texas for the past six days torching 1,600 homes and killing four people.              "We've had quite a bit of success today," Bill Paxton of the Texas Forest Service said of the battle to contain six dozen major blazes that have torched 154,000 acres across Texas since Sunday.
										
										              The largest of them, the Bastrop Complex fire, which has burned 1,376 homes and killed two people, was 40 percent contained on Saturday, Paxton said, as 64 aircraft and nearly 1,100 firefighters began to beat back the flames.              Many of the firefighters had been cycled in from other federal agencies to help exhausted firefighters rushed in from across Texas.              "Not only are we making inroads fighting the fires, but having so many more people has allowed us to give the Texas firefighters a much needed rest," Paxton said.              President Barack Obama late on Friday approved federal disaster assistance for parts of the state charred by the blazes, acting after criticism from Governor Rick Perry that the federal government was ignoring the drought in his state.              Wildfires have scorched 3.67 million acres in Texas since January, more than half of all of the acreage destroyed by wildfires nationwide in 2011.              Almost all of the state's 254 counties have banned outdoor burning, and 80 percent of the state is experiencing "exceptional drought" -- the worst of the five categories listed in the U.S. Drought Monitor.              Four people have been killed by fires in Texas since Sunday, when roaring winds from Tropical Storm Lee fanned more than six dozen major fires in the state.              Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald told a midday briefing that the effort being committed to fighting the deadly Bastrop Complex fire has stopped it from spreading, but he warned the fire is far from extinguished.              "Containment is now up to 40 percent, but we are still fighting the fire across the entire fire zone, which is more than 33,000 acres," he said.              'A HURTING SITUATION'              While some of the 5,000 people who have been evacuated from their homes in Bastrop County have been allowed to return to what's left of their property, McDonald says it will be a while before all those displaced are allowed home.              "We are going to get people back into their houses, but there is still going to be a lot of healing that will have to take place, and the entire community is going to have to stand together to make that happen," he said.              The fact that some residents are being allowed back into the burned out area while others are not, is beginning to anger evacuees, who crowd the Bastrop Community Center to scour the lists posted detailing the addresses of destroyed homes.              "It's a hurting situation when you have five kids sitting there, and they don't know what's going on," said Charlie Dayton, who has been unable to return to the site of his home, which was listed as destroyed.              "I just wish they would let people go back to their places," he said.              Bastrop County residents took some relief from the disaster order made late Friday, which makes homeowners and businesses eligible for federal aid, and reimburses local authorities for costs incurred fighting the fires.              "I want to thank the White House and FEMA for responding to our request for a disaster declaration," said Lt. Governor David Dewhurst, who is standing in for Perry as he campaigns for the Republican nomination for president.              "While I'm appreciative that the president granted a limited disaster declaration for Bastrop County, I'm still concerned about the rest of the state, especially the thousands of homes that have been destroyed and families who have been displaced," he added.              While the destructive Bastrop fire has garnered most attention, Paxton said the Riley Road Fire, northwest of Houston, is "burning the most aggressively."              He said the blaze had scorched 21,000 acres and torched 60 buildings, and was just 25 percent contained as of Saturday. The fire has forced the evacuation of dozens of subdivisions.              "I had a chance to look in the direction of where the fire was coming, and it was very close," said Mike Estrada, a resident evacuated from the path of that fire.              "I would say that the flames were 200 feet high."              (Editing by Tim Gaynor and Greg McCune)




Copyright © 2011, Reuters

sns-rt-us-wildfires-texas-disastertre7891kl-20110910



















Comments

5























« Previous Story
More Politics
Next Story »


Unpaid days off could cost city $7.5 million in overtime

Quinn vetoes ComEd rate hike








 















Comments (5)
Add / View comments | Discussion FAQ




Texas Girl at 4:08 PM September 10, 2011
					
					
                I am a proud Texan, and I fully support Gov Perry and all his decisions.  But after 300 days and 3.5 million acres burned by 18,887 fires, and 5 billion+ dollars in agricultural losses - we are not whining, we are overwhelmed!  Yes.  We pray in Texas.  But last I heard, freedom of religion is an American right.  We also stand together in times of trial, such as this.  People from all over Texas are helping Texans. We have have opened our homes to those who have been displaced.  Shelters, churches, and grocery stores are opening their doors and organizing donation centers.  People are offering places to shelter livestock, and others are driving to affected areas to pick them up and bring them to safe pasture.  People who are not volunteer firemen drive hundreds of miles on their weekend off to help fight these fires.  We didn't ask the government for that, we do it because it's the right thing to do.  But people and equipment  aren't designed to continue 24x7 for 300 (plus) days without a break.  And new fires break out every day.  We've been told we can expect more of the same into next year.   We have risen to the challenge, joined together, jumped in and done everything we possibly can for close to a year.  Even without budget cuts, there isn't much more we can do on our own.  Yes, we need help!  Anyone would.  Why is this even an issue?



citizen1st at 1:20 PM September 10, 2011
					
					
                I find this a very telling event. TX has literally been on fire for > 300 days. Suffering a catastrophic drought. So Gov Perry's actions to date have been to CUT spending on TX Fire Fighting forces while seeking solutions in a Day of Prayer. When these 2 acts didn't help/actually HURT his state, Gov Perry now criticizes Pres Obama for not moving faster to help his state with Federal funds Gov Perry complains are collected. That about the size of it?



parsleyspics at 10:19 AM September 10, 2011
					
					
                Let's not forget that Perry opted for prayer to end the drought while cutting back the budget for volunteer firegighters last year by 75 percent, The volunteers are the ones who fight forest fires, and in Texas they often have tp buy their own equipment. He has no business whining about the feds not stepping in fast enough - and neither does the media, especially when it ignores a major portion of the story.













 To our readers: Registration is required before your comments can be posted. Constructive and respectful comments related to the topic of the story are welcome; abusive, crass or vulgar comments are not. Comments containing vulgar words will be filtered out. Please make sure your language is civil and your comment furthers the conversation. Personal attacks on others who comment are not appropriate. Hateful, racist or threatening comments are not allowed. This is not a spot for free advertising or spam. We encourage you to help us uphold these standards by reporting abuse where appropriate. Ignoring the standards will result in your comment being removed. Repeat offenders will be banned. If warranted, we will take down entire comment boards.




















Chicago Shopping


Free $10 game play at Dave and Buster's








$65 for 2-Room Carpet Steam-Clean and Pre-Conditioning








See today's Groupon powered deal







Subscribe to daily deals



















Find us on Facebook










 





 










Photos in the news





Mugs in the news





Who's getting promoted





Celebrity sightings





Renegade Craft Fair photos




















Services

Subscribe
Manage subscription
Subscription payment
Mobile
E-edition
Newsletters/alerts
Text alerts
ChicagoPOINTS
Online marketing
Social-media contests
News in Education





Connect

Editorial contacts
Company contacts
Send news tips
Comments/feedback
Tribune events
Twitter
Facebook
RSS





Help

Advertising solutions
Self-service advertising
Special ad sections
Site FAQs
Accuracy
Reprints
About Tribune





Classified

Buy an ad
Announcements
Apartments
Cars for sale
Commercial real estate
Garage sales
Help wanted
Homes for sale
Mortgages
Obituaries
Pets for sale
Public records





Shop

Coupons
Fan Shop
Wine Club
Tribune Store
Photo store





Archives

Photos
Video
Events/listings
Columns
Readers Share
Blogs
Maps & apps
Topic galleries















Terms of Service
Privacy
About Our Ads
Feedback
Chicago Tribune, 435 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 60611








A Tribune Newspaper website





























