The Official Website of the Senate Republican Caucus



Home
About
Contact Us






The Official Website of the Senate Republican Caucus




Feeds:
Posts
Comments








Breaking News from Center for Arizona Policy
September 12, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


Another Life Victory! 
Planned Parenthood Won’t Appeal Abortion Consent Act to State Supreme Court
 Arizona’s largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, announced today that they would not appeal to the Arizona Supreme Court the Court of Appeals ruling which upheld the 2009 Abortion Consent Act. This is yet another victory for those who care for women and preborn children. Lives will be spared now that these common sense health and safety standards will be going into effect. The new provisions include: The state will require a notarized parental signature before an abortion can be performed on a minor child. Women will be provided with full and accurate information by a doctor in person at least 24 hours before an abortion. Medical professionals cannot be forced to perform abortions if it contradicts their sincerely held religious or moral beliefs. Non-doctors will not be permitted by law to perform surgical abortions. Planned Parenthood said they will continue to challenge parts of the Arizona’s abortion clinic regulations as applied to the distribution of the dangerous and deadly abortion pill. Arizona’s women deserve better than Planned Parenthood’s “quantity over quality” standard of care for women considering abortion. Center for Arizona Policy remains committed to seeing all aspects of the Abortion Consent Act and Abortion Clinic Regulations fully enacted. For more information on the Abortion Consent Act visit CAP’s information page: http://bit.ly/qDCDpv
 To read the decision from the Court of Appeals click here: http://bit.ly/r2m5QU
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Remembering  Our American Heroes
September 8, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


September 11, 2011
Arizona State Capitol
Phoenix, Arizona
6:30 p.m.
 
Opening Remarks
Marshall Trimble
 
Posting of the Colors
Phoenix Fire Department Honor Guard
 
God Bless America
Marshall Trimble
 
Invocation
Bishop Thomas J. Olmsted
 
Remarks
Chief Bob Khan, Phoenix Fire  Department
 
Mark Spencer, Arizona Police Association
 & President, Phoenix Law Enforcement Association
 
Russell Pearce, President of the Arizona State Senate
 
Andy Tobin, Speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives
 
Spotlights in remembrance of Sept. 11 attacks
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes
September 6, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (SEPTEMBER 6, 2011) – Arizona will honor the heroes of Sept. 11, 2001, at a remembrance ceremony this Sunday, the 10th anniversary of the attacks on the United States of America. The remembrance event will feature Historian Marshall Trimble, Phoenix Bishop Thomas Olmstead and representatives of local firefighters and police. The public is invited and encouraged to attend this opportunity to reflect together on the tragedy of Sept. 11 and honor those who protected us. As part of this remembrance, residents and businesses in downtown Phoenix are being asked to turn off their lights starting at 6:30 p.m. this Sunday in honor of those who were lost on Sept. 11.
 9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes Details and Agenda to come
 What: Remembrance ceremony for the 10th year anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks
When: This Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011; 6:30 p.m.
Where: State Capitol Complex, 1700 W.Washington Phoenix,AZ 85007
For more information: Daniel Scarpinato, Director of Communications, Arizona House of Representatives 602-926-3233 dscarpin@azleg.gov Mike Philipsen, Communications Advisor,Arizona State Senate 602-926-3972 mphilipsen@azleg.gov
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Senate President Pearce: Rising revenues a sign state budget plan is working, but we must stay fiscally responsible
August 31, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


A new report from the Joint Legislative Budget Committee shows continued strong growth for the State of Arizona. General Fund revenues are up 8.4% from this time last year, and July collections are up $35.4 million from the budget forecast.
“The State is really starting to see an economic comeback. The Legislature started the session in January with a $1.2 billion deficit. Republican leadership made the tough decisions to trim spending, without gimmicks and more borrowing. We’re seeing the results of those smart decisions now,” says Senate President Russell Pearce.
As a result of those cuts made by Leadership, the $1.2 billion deficit was eliminated for the fiscal year, and Arizona is in the black with a surplus of about $30 million.  With increased revenues and lowered spending, our focus now is getting Arizonans back to work and maintaining a balanced budget.  Education and public safety will remain our top priorities.
“We made a promise to the taxpayers of Arizona that we would get Arizona’s fiscal house back in order.  We’ve kept that promise, despite the criticism from the left about the leaner budget.  The current numbers clearly indicate that we made the right budget decisions.  We also passed the largest tax decrease in our State’s history in a Jobs Bill which I sponsored.  Because of our fiscal discipline, businesses can start up and expand—growing jobs and putting Arizonans to work,” says President Pearce.
Though the economy is improving, caution is warranted.  Arizona continues to carry a tremendous amount of debt incurred during previous years of out-of-control spending and reckless gimmicks.  One of these gimmicks was selling the buildings at the State Capital in order to continue unjustified spending.  The State no longer owns the buildings in which state legislators work and we have accumulated nearly $1 billion in building debt.  “This is unconscionable,” says the Senate President.
“With increased revenues, our first job is to begin paying off debt.  We must avoid pulling out the credit card for new programs that will siphon money away from responsibly eliminating our debt.” says President Pearce.
President Pearce
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Sen. Smith goes “On the Record with Greta van Susteren”
August 29, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


Sen. Steve Smith appeared Thursday night on Fox News to talk about the latest on the border fence project. He gave Greta an exclusive with word of a major donation by a large company.
http://video.foxnews.com/v/1129274855001/arizona-accepting-donations-for-a-border-fence/
Sen. Smith
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Sen. Steve Smith will appear on Fox’s On the Record with Greta van Susteren tonight
August 25, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


He’ll talk about some new developments with the border fence project. The show airs at 7 pm.
Sen. Smith
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Majority Leader Andy Biggs: Changes Needed on Redistricting Commission
August 25, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


Sen. Biggs
When Arizonans voted to create the Independent Redistricting Commission in 2000, they likely expected they would get fair and transparent redistricting of legislative and congressional districts. Seeing how the current IRC led by Colleen Mathis is spinning out of control, even the IRC’s most rabid supporters must be disappointed.
The wobbly performance of the IRC began when Ms. Mathis sided with the Democrats and refused to let the Republicans on the IRC choose their own attorney!  It continued when Ms. Mathis and the two Democrats on the IRC chose Strategic Telemetry to draw the maps of the new districts. Strategic Telemetry’s stated purpose is to elect “progressive” candidates. It’s understandable that people question that such a partisan firm will be able to put politics aside and draw fair districts.
That controversial decision was set up by the incompetent Commissioner José Herrera and Ms. Mathis. Herrera admitted publicly that he fudged the scores deliberately high for Strategic Telemetry. The fact that Strategic Telemetry was the most expensive bidder should have disqualified ST immediately. Instead, ST was allowed to lower its bid. The new bid was a smokescreen, however, because the IRC had to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay for ST’s special software and office space, which competing bidders already had.
Failure to adhere to the normal public bidding process and being co-opted by the Democrats has accelerated the erratic behavior of Chairman Mathis.  Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne is investigating allegations Mathis violated open meeting laws. Mathis and Herrera say they will not cooperate with the investigation. Instead, they have hired two attorneys with taxpayer money to defend them in this investigation.
Additionally, I have sent a statutory request for information to the IRC but have been ignored. Since the original request more than a month ago I have made two additional requests and still haven’t received the requested information. Between thumbing their noses at the Attorney General and stonewalling the requests for information from the Legislature, it has the feel of a blatant cover-up. 
If Ms. Mathis is unwilling to act in an “independent and impartial fashion”, as required by the Arizona Constitution, she should be removed. The bidding process for Strategic Telemetry needs to be reviewed to see if state laws were broken. Mathis and Herrera need to come clean on whether they violated open meeting laws. Mathis needs to order her attorneys to respond immediately to my request for information.
Arizonans approved the IRC believing we would have a fair and transparent redistricting process.  Ms. Mathis and her Democratic cronies have proven to be obstructionist, unfair, and obstinate in their duties.  It seems that Ms. Mathis and Commissioner Herrera have failed in their constitutional duties to uphold “public confidence in the integrity of the redistricting process.”  Therefore they should be removed in the manner that the voters insisted should be a safeguard to the process of redistricting.
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Sen Nelson: West Valley is not a good choice for new prison
August 22, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


Sen. Nelson
Having attended the public hearing by the Arizona Department of Corrections on the  Perryville prison it is important for everyone to understand some of the history behind its present location and why it should not be expanded and furthermore if it should even remain in place at all.
ADOC is wrapping up a process to find a place to build several new private prisons in Arizona. Depending on the selection, each prison would hold 1,000 to 5,000 inmates. There is a demand for these new beds, and each 5,000 bed prison will bring 1,000 construction jobs and more than 1,000 permanent jobs to the state.
Four companies are making bids. Corrections Corporation of America is proposing a 4,500 bed complex in Eloy. Geo Group is considering a 2,000-3,000 bed prison near Yuma, or up to 5,000 beds at Perryville. LaSalle Correctional Management wants to build a 1,000 bed unit in Winslow. Management & Training Corporation is considering a 3,000 bed prison near Yuma or a 3,000-5,000 bed complex in Coolidge.
ADOC held five public hearings around the state to talk with residents about the proposals. They have heard the public give opinions on the benefits to the economy and the concerns about safety.
One thing has become clear. The expansion should not happen at Perryville. West valley residents remember when the State broke a promise in the 1980s concerning Perryville, and they don’t trust the State with its promises at this time.
In 1980, the State was in the middle of a political battle and a lawsuit filed by the Litchfield Elementary School District over where to build a new prison, and how big that prison should be. To get a bill passed, lawmakers agreed to a limit of 1,000 beds for male inmates and four hundred beds for females. Over the objections of nearby residents, the Governor and the Legislature at the time made the decision to build it near I-10 and Cotton Lane.
 Just four years later, legislators changed the law, and now 1,400 inmates could be housed, regardless of gender. More egregiously, in 1989, the Legislature ripped up the 1980 agreement, and removed any limits on the number of inmates housed at Perryville, thereby again thumbing their noses at the people of the west valley. The result? Four thousand five hundred inmates are housed at Perryville. Our residents have long memories, and they know an agreement with the state over prisons isn’t worth the paper it is printed on.
 The good news is that nearly every other proposed site is being welcomed with open arms. In Winslow, residents and local leaders were literally begging for LaSalle to build its prison there. At the Yuma hearing, one of my Senate colleagues said it was “a no-brainer” to expand the prison in San Luis. Reports from Eloy say the CCA proposal there got near-unanimous support.
Arizona is  going to have new prison facilities, and we are going to make sure ADOC demands the highest security standards, with the safety of neighborhoods in mind. There are some good options available. The west valley is not one of those options.  
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



New Appropriations Chair Named
August 19, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


Sen. Shooter
Senate President Russell Pearce announced today he is naming Senator Don Shooter chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
 “Senator Shooter is a strong fiscal conservative. He works well with his colleagues and the Governor. He will put the taxpayers of Arizona first,” says President Pearce.
 Sen. Shooter currently serves as Chair of the Appropriations Sub-committee on Rural Issues, Education & Natural Resources.
 “It will be a year of reform, with a smaller, more efficient government. With this pro-jobs, pro-education, pro-public safety Senate we have a great opportunity to continue to move Arizona in the right direction,” says Sen. Shooter. “We will return in January with no deficit, thanks to the Senate’s hard work in delivering a balanced budget.” 
 “Senator Shooter will be an outstanding Appropriations chair, continuing our effort to stimulate the economy with lower taxes and reduced regulation,” says Pres. Pearce.  “He understands the process and has a good working relationship with the House and the Governor. Senator Shooter has the time and willingness to work with Leadership on budget issues important to Arizona.”
 Shooter replaces Senator Andy Biggs, who is now Majority Leader in the Senate.  
“Senator Biggs will stay very engaged in the Appropriations process, and Appropriations Vice-Chair Ron Gould is a seasoned Senator and a longtime Appropriations member. With Senator Shooter moving into this leadership role, our Appropriations team becomes even stronger,” says Pres. Pearce.
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off



Sen. Gray earns national award for longtime commitment to fighting drunk driving
August 16, 2011 by azsenaterepublicans 


Sen. Gray
Sen. Linda Gray, a well-known champion of strong drunk-driving legislation, continues to be recognized nationally for her efforts. The Century Council has given the Phoenix Republican a Leadership Award for her hard work. The Century Council is a national not-for-profit organization funded by distillers and focused on fighting drunk driving and underage drinking.
 Senator Gray is one of only seventeen legislators across the country to earn the award.
 In announcing the honor, the group said “Senator Gray has fought tirelessly to strengthenArizona’s drunk driving laws”.  The Century Council recognized that Senator Gray has made community safety a top priority by promoting legislation to prevent alcohol-related traffic crashes.  In 2001, The Century Council supported her bill to lowerArizona’s “extreme DUI” level from .18 to .15. 
 In the most recent legislative session, Senator Gray sponsored SB 1200 which promotes the increased use of ignition interlocks to prevent drunks from driving.  She credits the use of the interlock devices for the 46% reduction in DUI fatalities in the latest data obtained by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
 Senator Gray is chair of the Senate Public Safety & Human Services Committee.
 
Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off

Older Posts »



Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009

  Recent Posts 
Breaking News from Center for Arizona Policy
Remembering  Our American Heroes
9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes
Senate President Pearce: Rising revenues a sign state budget plan is working, but we must stay fiscally responsible
Sen. Smith goes “On the Record with Greta van Susteren”

Arizona Senate Republicans on Twitter
Center for AZ Policy: Another Life Victory!
http://t.co/80Hu0lw 14 hours ago
Thank you to all who attended the moving 9/11 tribute at the Capitol tonight 1 day ago

  Flickr Photos:


More Photos




Pages 
About
Contact Us

 
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com


Search for:








Blog at WordPress.com.
Theme: MistyLook by Sadish. 














