Arizona's Own Espresso Pundit





Arizona's Own Espresso Pundit










Recent Posts


Here's an idea...let's make Russell Pearce the victim and then give him a bunch of free press...
Sticks and Stones
Cage Fighting 
Say Goodbye to Keven on Your Way Out.
The Republic Finally Catches Up
Grenade Gate?
Time To Lawyer Up
I'll be on Square Off This Sunday at 8:00 AM.
Too Cruel
After Extensive Investigation Grant Wood Clears Dennis Burke











Subscribe to EspressoPundit



What is RSS?




About Greg


Greg's Bio

E-mail Greg





Recent Comments



Greybeard on Here's an idea...let's make Russell Pearce the victim and then give him a bunch of free press...


tsmith on Here's an idea...let's make Russell Pearce the victim and then give him a bunch of free press...


Paul S on Sticks and Stones


Mark W. Killian on Sticks and Stones


RonJ on Cage Fighting 


Stewie on Sticks and Stones


David Dodenhoff on Sticks and Stones


Nick on Cage Fighting 


Scott Gustafson on Cage Fighting 


Stewie on Cage Fighting 




The Archives


August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
July 2006
October - Election '06
2004
1st Quarter 2005
2nd Quarter 2005
July 2005
August 2005
September 2005
October 2005
November 2005
December 2005
January 2006
February 2006
March - April 2006
May 2006
June 2006
August 2006
September 2006




















Here's an idea...let's make Russell Pearce the victim and then give him a bunch of free press...


 I had an appointment in Mesa today and I saw a ton of Russell Pearce signs as well as a lot of the controversial smack signs that criticise recall organizer Randy Parraz.  You will remember that the recall supporters complained about the "illegal" Parraz signs and demanded that they be removed. 
Parraz supporters--who must be new to the first amendment--insisted that the signs be removed for their content.  Pearce's group eventually took them down because the signs had been posted more than 60 days before the election.  Then they waited a week until they were within 60 days of the election and put them up again. 
This shows that the Parraz folks are not ready for prime time.  The recall team managed to simultaneously look like bullies and whiners, while giving Pearce's team a handful of articles in which make their points.  Then when Pearce was "forced" to take his signs down, they were only down for a week or two. 
It will be interesting to see how this race ultimately works out.  The November 8th election will have all the characteristics of a General election that contains two Republican candidates.  If all the Democrats and a fourth of the Republicans vote for Lewis then he will win.  Then what happens?  Lewis will be a pariah for a year--but he will still vote like a conservative East Valley Legislator and then Pearce will crush him in the 2012 election.  What does Parraz and crew accomplish by this?
These games tend to backfire.  Recall that in the 1980 1972 redistricting, there was a young Democratic Pima County attorney that folks didn't like, so when it came time to tweak the districts they made sure that his house was just a little outside of the most likely legislative district.  This was a really funny trick and ended his legislative prospects....so a few years later, this guy decided to run the US Senate.  You may have heard of him--Dennis DeConcinni served in the US Senate for 18 years. 
So maybe Pearce will take his old seat back, or maybe he will use the free time to run for something else--like Congress...Sheriff. Wouldn't that be funny.
Post Script:  Did I just concede that Legislators can play games with the redistricting process?  Of course.  My point has always been that while there will always be some games in the redistricting process, the final results are much better when the participants in that process are elected and accountable to voters.  The IRC has played more games in the last few months than the legislators played in the entire 1980 or 1990 redistricting process.




September 12, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (2)






Sticks and Stones


In the previous post, I called out Cheryl Cage for her claim that folks need to support the Independent Redistricting Commission so that we can finally get competitive districts.  I pointed out that the current districts that the Dems complain about were drawn by the IRC. 
Then I made this point:
I was in the Legislature in 1993 when we drew the lines that were in effect for 10 years; by 2000, those lines yielded a Senate that contained 15 Democrats and 15 Republicans.  Then in 2002, the Independent Redistricting Commission took over and drew new lines. Now--10 yeas after their lines have been in effect--the Senate has 21 Republicans and 9 Democrats.  Therefore, the Legislature drew more competitive lines than the IRC.
The left side of the blogosphere responded in the comment section to the effect that...I'm an idiot.
So, let's start the comments over.  If you disagree with my  premise, please start your comments with the phrase..."Greg, you are right.  The legislature did a much better job drawing competitive districts in 1992 than the IRC did in 2002, however, we should support the IRC because..."  Then follow that sentence with an actual reason that doesn't merely attack me or the legislature.
That's how grown ups discuss issues.




September 12, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (4)






Cage Fighting 


You may recall that when Cheryl Cage ran against Al Melvin for the State Senate seat in District 26, she--with the help of her media enablers--tried to portray herself as a moderate against the "ultra-Conservative" Melvin.  The electorate didn't buy it and Melvin beat her handily--twice. 
Cage has resurfaced as Executive Director of "Arizona List" a group that has a goal of electiing "dynamic, progressive Democratic women" to state office.  So much for the "moderate" label. 
In addition to showing her true colors, cage shows her ignorance of the political process...though she can hardlly be faulted for quoting a myth that the left and members of the media have been quoting for years.  Check out this howler from her latest email blast.
I wanted to share with you some details on the important work of Arizona’s Independent Redistricting Commission – and ask for your help.
Every 10 years, our legislative and Congressional districts get redrawn. In Arizona, we have an independent commission doing the drawing—not politicians.  
This month the commission wants to hear from us about what our districts should look like.
We’ve seen the damage that uncompetitive districts have done to our state— it’s time to demand that the commission create fair districts that will allow all Arizonans to have a voice in choosing their representation.
Did you spot the myth?  Cage claims that the legislative districts are not competitive and says we need to support the Independent Redistricting Commission.   She fails to disclose--or even understand--that the CURRENT Districts were drawn by the Independent Redistricting Commission.
I was in the legislature in 1991 when we drew the Legislative Districts that were in place until 2002.  Those districts were so competitive that after the election of 2000, the Senate was tied at 15-15.  Then the intelligentsia decided to "reform the system and take the power away from the "politicians" and asked the voters to create the "Independent" Redistricting Commission.  The IRC drew the lines in 2002 and now the Senate and House each have Republican super majorities.   
Cage and other "reformers" should admit that their reforms have backfired.  The current legislature has Republican super majorities and the members of those  majorities are overwhelmingly Conservative.  Instead of admitting that their reforms have failed, Cage and her fellow travellers blame the "politicians" and  call more allegiance to the failed reforms.  Maybe she can announce a new five year plan, a War on Poverty or perhaps a cultural revolution. 
It's worth a shot.  After all, pretending to be a moderate and running for the Senate didn't work, Clean Elections didn't work...and the IRC process didn't work.  After a couple more years of people like Cheryl Cage working for "reform" the Republicans will have all the seats. 




September 09, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (15)






Say Goodbye to Keven on Your Way Out.


The Dallas Morning News is undergoing a layoff.  The DMN has been in steady decline since former Arizona Republic Editorial Page Editor Keven Ann Wiley took over nearly a decade ago.  Some of the DMN collapse can certainly be attributed to the general industry decline, but Keven made a series of bone headed moves--like naming "The Illegal Alien" as Texan of the year--that really ticked off the readership and hastened the decline.  At the time of that controversy, Keven said this about the cancelled subscriptions: "against our customer base, it's just not a material number".  Well, now that folks are getting laid off, my guess is that things are "material."
Newspaper readers are no longer captive, but newspaper management continues to feed them left wing drivel and lousy writing, so the readers go elsewhere.  I've talked to plenty of middle aged professionals who WANT to read a morning paper.  They like to sit at the kitchen table, drink coffee and turn pages.  The computer seems like work; they want the newspaper experience.  But they have cancelled because they are so ticked off by the lousy writing and bias. 
So eventually, things become "material" and revenue declines enought that good folks lose their jobs.  So the folks in Dallas can thank Keven; the folks in Tucson can thank Fitz and the folks at the Republic can thank Daniel Gonzales.




September 08, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (2)






The Republic Finally Catches Up


Well, it finally happened.  Yesterday I posted a Fast and Furious story about Dennis Burke refusing to indict an Arizona man who was arming drug cartels with Grenades...and today, the Republic has the same story.  The paper is finally current on Fast and Furious coverage.  
The Republic got pretty close to catching up last weekend.  On Friday, I posted the story about the Congressional Committee's document requests--and demand for interviews--with lower level players in the Phoenix US Attorney's office...and the Republic ran the same story on Sunday.
This is exactly how I predicted the Repulic coverage would unfold.  Here's how I described it on June 20th.
Eventually, there will be a massive shakeup in the local US Attorney's office as well as the local ATF office and the Republic will be forced to cover it.  At that point, readers who get their local news exclusively from the Republic will wonder what the heck happened.
Wow, not only did I get the Burke prediction right, but I got the Republic's reaction to the Burke situation right. Next, I'll be reminding you that I told you to buy gold when it was at $800...
From now on you will see day to day coverage of the scandal.  The embargo has been lifted and each update that appears in the national papers and the blogs will generate an article in the Republic. 
Post Script:
 I should be clear that my media criticism is reserved for the print coverage.  The TV reporters started covering Fast and Furious immediately after it broke.  Here's a screen shot and link to a Melissa Blasius story from last June.  Melissa has run half a dozen or so hard hitting stories about the scandal.  Brahm Resnik has done quite a few stories too and the folks at channel 5 have been on it as well.  That makes it all the more awkward that the Republic simply refused to follow the story.




September 07, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (1)






Grenade Gate?


Apologists have been spinning the narrative that Dennis Burke is a wonderful guy who did a great job but was ousted for political reasons.  Well, that narrative is getting a lot harder to spin.  The Wall Street Journal is reporting that Burke botched another operation involving a suspect trying to smuggle as many as 2,000 grenades into Mexico. 
Maybe this explains why Burke was fired so quickly.  After all, most folks thought that the Fast and Furious investigation would unfold a bit more before heads started to roll.  Burke was apparently too much of a liability to keep around even in the short run. 
Here's the info from the Wall Street Journal.
Federal authorities are probing why the U.S. in 2010 let go an Arizona man accused of supplying grenades to a Mexican drug cartel, a case that played a role in the ouster last week of the nation's top firearms regulator and the U.S. attorney in Phoenix.
U.S. officials said missteps in the case, which hasn't been previously disclosed, are being investigated by the Justice Department and Congress. Federal agents in 2009-10 at the Phoenix office of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives led the case against the suspect, who they believed was dealing grenades to cartels in Mexico. The case was overseen by prosecutors in the Arizona U.S. attorney's office, the U.S. officials said.
 




September 06, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (0)






Time To Lawyer Up


The great thing about the Arizona Republic's boycott of the Fast and Furious story is that I get to be the one who breaks all the stories. 
This story is going to be huge, but it will be a while before you read it in the paper.
Now that Dennis Burke is gone, the Congressional Committee that's investigating the case is trying to figure out exactly who in Burke's office was responsible for the day-to-day operation of this disaster.
According to this letter from the Chairmen, the Committee wants to conduct "transcribed interviews" with Emory Hurley, Michael Morrissey and Pat Cunningham.  Since these "transcribed interviews" are likely to be under oath, I would think they are more popularly known as "depositions."
The Committee also wants all communication, email, notes, briefings etc from the following people in the AZ US Attorney's Office:  Dennis Burke, Ann Scheel, Emory Hurley, Michael Morrissey, Pat Cunningham and Robbie Sherwood.  (Yes, THAT Robbie Sherwood--who went from the Republic to Harry Mitchell's office and then to Burke's office.  Talk about sinking ships.  Wow.)
Remember that this is serious matter--150 people are dead.  Time to lawyer up guys. And remember that the cover up is worse than the crime so don't spend your weekend deleting old emails. 




September 02, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (8)






I'll be on Square Off This Sunday at 8:00 AM.



I'll be on Sunday Square Off this Sunday morning on Channel 12. We discuss the Dennis Burke firing, Fast and Furious, Congressional Jobs package and predictions.  As usual, I had a big cup of coffee in the Green Room and was so jacked that I couldn't see out of my left eye...I have to wait an hour before I try to drive, but it makes for better TV. 
I floated this theory to the panelists after the show and they thought I was full of it, so I'm going to bounce it off you guys. 
I think that Dennis Burke's downfall was that he was part of the culture of arrogance and corruption in the Napolitano Administration and lost his bearings.  So when he saw Fast and Furious, he knew it was illegal, but simply didn't believe that the rules applied to him.
Here's an example of that corruption.   Remember when Napolitano offered to write the Home Builders out of the TIME initiative if they contributed $100,000 to the effort? Read Dennis Burkes's quote at the bottom of this Tribune article and ask yourself if this guy was headed for a fall. 
Then think about the million dollar environmental settlement that Honeywell paid and that was supposed to go to South Phoenix.  Napolitano and Burke siphoned the money off and sent it to Western Climate Initiative. 
Don't forget that Napolitano and Burke gave the state's student loan monopoly to the head of the firefighters union. And how much did Burke know about the illegal renaming of Squaw Peak?  Or how about when Napolitano tried to amend a bill through her line item veto?  That was obviously illegal, but she and Burke tried it anyway and got slapped down in a 5-0 decision by the state Supreme Court.
Or how about this trick from 2004 when she siphoned $230,000 out of the state's emergency medical fund to promote her lagging "CoppeRx" prescription discount card. 
Gov. Janet Napolitano dipped into a fund used for health emergencies to help promote the state's prescription-drug program for seniors, a move that has come under fire because she pledged not to use taxpayer money to advertise the discount cards.
So I think that Burke spent a decade learning that the rules didn't apply to him and that one of the scandals got too big to contain and he was fired for it.  He should have looked at Fast and Furious and realized that it was an insane policy and then spoke up.  Instead, it was just one more program that was against the rules--but that he knew he could get away with. 




September 02, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (4)






Too Cruel


Lots of folks are buzzing about the solar company Solyndra's collapse.  President Obama singled the plant out during a tour and the compnay received $535 million in loan guarantees before spiraling down.  The least they could do is, you know, take down the website. 




September 02, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (2)






After Extensive Investigation Grant Wood Clears Dennis Burke


From this morning’s Republic:  Woods said Burke has "done an excellent job, and I think he probably welcomes the chance to take a breather." Burke didn’t merely preside over some bureaucratic snafu.  He didn’t just overspend a budget, misuse RICO funds or take a politician to football games.  Burke oversaw a program that purchased and sent 2,000 high powered weapons to Mexican drug cartels and they have used those weapons to kill 150 people so far. But, hey, Grant Woods is confident that Burke has “done an excellent job.”  So he’s got that going for him, which is nice.




August 31, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (11)






The Wheels on the Bus Go Round and Round.


 It's been 10 weeks since I predicted that US Attorney Dennis Burke would be forced to resign for his part in the Fast and Furious scandal.
On June 16th, I wrote that "Burke will be unemployed by year end."
My view is that President Obama and AG Eric Holder will try to contain the damage as far down the chain of command as possible--that means they jettison Burke very quickly. 
Well, you may have read that Burke resigned this morning.
Burke's resignation is only the beginning.  This scandal is so large that it will work it's way up the chain of command until it envelopes AG Eric Holder as well.  If you want to know how big the story it, ask yourself how many people died as a result of Watergate.
Burke deserved to go.  He certainly knew about--and probably approved--the Fast and Furious operation which resulted in scores of deaths...including two US Agents and the brother of a Mexican Attorney General.  Burke then handled the resulting case badly...for example, he opposed Agent Terry's family's motion to become intervenors in the case. 
Let's be clear.  Burke got the position because he was close to Janet Napolitano.  The US Attorney's office works extensively with the Tribes and Burke replaced a more qualified Native American woman who was an expert in Indian Law.  His hiring was political and his firing was for cause. His actions led to the death of scores of innocent people and his handling of the aftermath was short sighted and callous.
Burke is by no means a victim.  Let's hope that he has the class not to try to portray himself as one and let's hope the media has the sensibility not to fall for it if he does.
Post Script:
Speaking of the media, it will be interesting to see how the Republic handles the story.  After all, the Fast and Furious scandal is a local story that has gone national.  The Republic should have been going full Woodward and Bernstein on this thing.  Instead, the paper systematically ignored the story.   I've certainly covered the local angle extensively--and Brahm Resnik has been all over it-- but if you get your news from the Republic, you have no idea what's going on.  All you will see is the surprise resignation of the US Attorney. 
Newspapers used to be the gatekeepers.  What they didn't write, didn't happen. Those days are long gone.  Now the newspapers ignore events, but the public finds out about the events through alternative sources and then eventually the newspaper is unable to maintain the blackout.  The Burke story is a great example of that phenomenon. 
Newspapers lose credibility every time they try to bury a story and it blows up in their face.  Soon they will be gone and the world will be a better place.




August 30, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (10)






Journalism 101:  Tricks of the Trade


I like to point out parts of stories in which the reporter tries to manipulate the reader.  It's usually easy to find a trick or two, but last Sunday, the Republic's Michelle Ye Hee Lee wrote a story that provides a full blown clinic on media manipulation. 
Check out this story about secret meetings between the Maricopa County Air Quality Director and the industry folks who are writing regulations behind the scenes.
The department's director, William Wiley, holds private monthly meetings to discuss policy changes with a group he calls the Clean Air Council, composed entirely of local stakeholders such as members of private industry and local cities.
Can you spot the trick?  I call it "Mr. Smith Showers Nude!" 
When you read a breathless article citing secret sources who confirm that Mr. Smith indeed showers in the nude, it sounds really bad.  Of course, if you think about it...everyone showers in the nude.  So let's go back to the paragraph about Bill Wiley...he hosts meetings to discuss policies with stake holders.  Is that a problem?  That's the essence of government.  I meet with government officials all day.  When I was in government, I met with stakeholders all day.  The conference rooms at all levels of government have to be reserved by appointment because they are filled with stakeholders and policy makers all day long.  The reporter has taken something that is common, legal and normal and made it sound evil. 
The second trick is what I call the "Self Debunking story." 
The Wiley group is controversial because the meetings are private, which, of course, implies that they are "secret"...which in turn implies that they generate bad results.   The reporter then gives us a bunch of background on the open meeting law and eventually we find out that the open meeting law doesn't apply to state agencies.  So the meetings are legal.  But here's the real trick...if you read the full story, you will realize that the meetings aren't even private!  The meetings are open to all stakeholders--including cities and the American Lung Association as well as to other employees (whose "exclusion" is the premise of the article.)  In addition to being open, the meetings are formal...they have agendas, regular meeting times and a large list of invitees. 
The entire premise of the story...that an agency Director is having secret, closed door meetings with industry advocates is false and you can tell it's false by simply reading the entire story. 
The next trick is called "hide the source".  The reporter is supposed to have written the story based on complaints by "employees within the agency."  Yet none of these employees are named or quoted and if you read closely, it looks like the origin of the story is actually a two month old press release from State Representative Daniel Patterson.  Here's the key line...
In June, Patterson's group sent a release to news outlets accusing the Air Quality Department of "clubby, closed-door dealing on matters affecting public health and quality of life."
So here's what really happened. Last June, Patterson sent the press release that's quoted above.  The reporter was intrigued by these closed door meetings with industry bad guys and decided to go with it.  She put a lot of time into the story, researched the open meeting law, got a lot of good quotes and then realized...that the meetings are actually open.  D'oh.
By then she had so much time invested in the now debunked story that she couldn't just drop it, so she sexed it up a bit and ran with it anyway.   Here's a great example of sexing it up; notice that the employees aren't "complaining", they are "blowing the whistle".  Whistleblowing is not an expression, it's a legal term that describes a situation in which employees report illegal activities to regulatory or law enforcement officials and in turn receive special statutory protection. 
Her use of the term "blow the whistle" is an effort to create the impression that Mr. Wiley has done something illegal, without actually saying that he has done something illegal.  After all, she can't actually say that he's done something illegal because the rest of her story points out that everything he's done is legal, and in fact, the one thing he's supposed to have done--held closed-door meetings with stakeholders--he hasn't done at all.
The next trick is the one I call "moral equivalence."  Tell me what you think of this quote. 
"Whether it's legal or not doesn't really matter," said Cuillier, chairman of the Society of Professional Journalists' Freedom of Information Committee. "Do we want to protect corporations from feeling uncomfortable, or do we want to err on the side of making sure the public knows what's going on? Personally, I am on the side of the public."
That quote would be pretty funny if it was from a guy picked at random in the automotive section of your local Wal-Mart.  The fact that the quote is from a journalism professor is absurd.  My gosh, this guy actually teaches journalists and he said "Whether it's legal or not doesn't matter."  Do you know why he said that?  Because he actually believes it. Journalists really believe that their opinion on what's right and wrong is the same as the LAW about what's right or wrong.  So it doesn't actually matter if it's illegal, this professor thinks it's wrong, so naturally, that's the same thing. 
Notice of course that his quote--in addition to being quite insane--is completely wrong because the meetings are OPEN. 
Finally let's step back and look at the rank hypocrisy.  On the day this story ran, the Arizona Republic endorsed Wes Gullet for Phoenix Mayor.  Funny, I must have missed the notice for the meeting where that decision was made.  After all, that's a very important decision.  I presume that there were a lot of meetings with stakeholders and candidates.  Shockingly, those meetings were all held BEHIND CLOSED DOORS!  These critical meetings were secret, private affairs in which the public was excluded while the crucial desision makers at the Republic met behind closed doors with candidates and then met privately among themselves to make this crucial decision.  There was no notice, no agenda, no open doors, no minutes, no record, no public access.  Then the editorial was written...anonymously.  So the process may be secret, but at least there's no accountability.
 But you say "Greg, the Republic is a private corporation it doesn't have to comply with the open meeting law.  It doesn't have to follow the Freedom of Information act.  It doesn't have to be transparent and open."
To that I reply. 
"Whether it's legal or not doesn't really matter," "Do we want to protect corporations from feeling uncomfortable, or do we want to err on the side of making sure the public knows what's going on? Personally, I am on the side of the public."




August 30, 2011  | Permalink
|
Comments (12)








Next
»




























