 Seeing Red AZ



Seeing Red AZ
political views from a red state



Home
About

 


Phoenix mayoral endorsements heat up campaign
September 12, 2011

Could Stanton’s loss of uber-liberal endorsements actually improve his chances? 
The National Border Patrol Council Local 2544  has lent its support to the campaign of Greg Stanton, the Democrat lawyer running for Mayor of Phoenix. In most city and state races such an endorsement would provide a desired boost. But Salvador Reza, the brut force extremist who led the shrill demonstrations blocking customer access to generational owned M. D. Pruitt’s furniture store and fronted the Macehualli labor center for illegal workers, doesn’t like it. He seems to think it carries a secret message of “terror” for Phoenix’s illegal population.
At the onset of his campaign, Stanton touted the Arizona Police Association endorsement. But their support of SB 1070, a state law titled “Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act,” is not a plus with liberals. This is the group so supportive of enforcement that for the first time in its history, it withdrew its support of Sen. John McCain over frustration with his inaction on the border and backed his conservative opponent J.D. Hayworth.
Police support does not sit well with Reza, who has now backed away from Stanton, although Stanton has thoughtfully posted web pages in “Español.”  As they say, there are days you can’t win for losing. First, one time firefighter union heavy/lobbyist and good buddy Billy Shields withdraws his support and now the major advocate for illegal aliens.  What’s a Democrat to do?
Despite losing Shield’s and Reza’s crucial support, Stanton has managed to pick up an endorsement from his own lawyer wife.
Reza can‘t bring himself to support Republican Wes Gullett either, saying he thinks both men are “evil.” Gullett has vowed to enforce all state laws, including SB 1070, and makes a point of saying he will not support day labor centers for illegals.
The farce is that the city council and mayor run as non-partisan. Running without labels has been an effective means of snookering the voters who might not have the time or inclination to look beyond slick signs and slogans. But the recent primary laid waste to the claim in at least one case. District Two candidate Jim Waring broke out of the mold and conspicuously placed the word “Republican” on his signage, though he oddly displays the Phoenix Chamber endorsement on his website. The group is supportive of illegal labor profiteers.
Mayoral candidate Jennifer Wright’s signs declared her the “conservative choice.”  Waring won his council seat.  Wright was hamstrung by being excluded from the candidate debate by the left-of-center Phoenix Chamber of Commerce, which attempted to influence the election.
This site was supportive of Wright in the Primary. Given the current choices, we will urge support for Wes Gullett. Although he has previously let conservatives down as with his bizarre endorsement of Janet Napolitano, we are willing to take him at his word, give him our nod, and hope for the best.
 

 10 Comments				|  Arizona Politics, Elections, Greater Phoenix Politics, Illegal Immigration, We have a voice								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Tea Party, CNN host GOP debate tonight: Mon. Sept. 12, 2011
September 12, 2011


Tonight CNN will broadcast the first -ever “Tea Party Republican Debate,” live from Tampa, Florida 5:00 pm Phoenix time / 8:00 pm EST. 
The following Republican candidates will be sharing the stage: Michelle Bachmann, Herman Cain, Newt Gingrich, Jon Huntsman, Ron Paul, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
The debate will focus on a wide-range of topics, including the role, size and scope of government, with a specific emphasis on issue number one to Tea Party patriots, as well as all Americans: THE ECONOMY.
Although momentum is currently with the newest entrant Perry, it is well to remember that the Texas governor was instrumental in killing a bill similar to Arizona‘s popular and nationally copied SB 1070. Recently, Politico covered this Perry albatross, including email exchanges from Perry bundlers underscoring his weak illegal immigration stance.
In addition to questions from moderator Wolf Blitzer, audience members representing Tea Party groups in 31 states and the District of Columbia, will be invited to ask questions directly to the candidates.
Questions will also be taken live from Tea Party participants at debate watching parties around the country, including here in Phoenix, Arizona. We look for Perry to receive specific and tough questions regarding his limp stance on illegal immigration.
CNN reports the debate will be available via live stream in the CNN Apps for iPhone, iPad and Android.
 

 11 Comments				|  Arizona issues, Elections, Illegal Immigration, National Politics, Presidential campaigns, We have a voice								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14
September 11, 2011


GUESTS:   GOP CORPORATION  COMMISSION CANDIDATES     
Location: Appaloosa Public Library
7377 E. Silverstone Drive, Scottsdale, AZ 85255
(Near intersection of North Scottsdale and East Pinnacle Peak)
Date: Wednesday, Sept. 14, 2011 (2nd Wed of Month)
Time: 6:45 – 7:00 pm Meet & Greet.  Meeting from 7:00 – 8:15 pm
The PAChyderm Coalition is a Reagan Republic organization.
Do you pay utility bills?
Would you like to know how much the 15% renewable energy requirement could raise your monthly bill?
Do you ever deal with or own shares in any Arizona corporations?
Do you use water?
If you answered YES to any of those questions, you owe it to yourself to hear what the Republican candidates for Corporation Commission plan to do after they are elected. The Corporation Commission usually does not get the attention that other state executive branch offices or the legislature gets. It is a relatively low profile government body that has a tremendous impact on our lives.
Contact Information:
Howard Levine, (480) 577-4168
NE Valley Chapter Chairman, Howard_Levine@rocketmail.com
 

 2 Comments				|  Arizona Politics, Elections, Integrity, We have a voice								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



9/11 2101: AZ Republic attempts to skew 100 years in future
September 11, 2011

 “Blame America Firsters” hard at work at dying newspaper
Today’s Repulsive (the daily dispenser of left-leaning skew) featured this offensive editorial written from the perspective of 100 years from September 11, 2001, in which the editorialist blamed the monstrous attacks and ensuing carnage on President George W. Bush.  True to the newspaper’s leftist mantra of political correctness, the word “Muslim” was mysteriously omitted although all 19 terrorist hijackers who commandeered the four commercial airliners used as weapons against America were adherents of Islam.  And when opining “economic crisis followed…” the name Barack Hussein Obama, who has incurred more debt that all previous administrations combined,  was also missing.
But let’s not forget who usually writes this drivel.  She outed herself just days ago with this “Quick Hit” in which she wrote that President Obama should follow the advice of AFL-CIO union thug Richard Trumka who dismissed Republicans as “unreasonable people.”
Trumka reportedly told Obama “Do not look at what is possible — look at what is necessary. If you only propose what you think they’ll accept, they control the agenda.”
Linda Valdez declared: “He’s right. America needs bold leadership, not kowtowing to the GOP.”
There, plain as day, is the newspaper’s unconcealed viewpoint.  Ready to cancel your subscription yet?
 

 8 Comments				|  Arrogance, Beating the drum, Columnists, Hope and Change, News, Terrorism, Those Dems								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Obama sullies 10-year memorial of September 11th
September 11, 2011


Americans will join together today — at public memorials, in their homes, churches and synagogues to mark the tenth anniversary of the unthinkable — the most vicious attack on American soil since our nation’s founding.
Ten years ago today, 2,973 people were murdered by 19 radical Muslim terrorists who commandeered two commercial airliners and flew them into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City and another into the Pentagon. The death toll also includes 40 passengers and crew members aboard the fourth hijacked plane, United 93, which crashed in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, as courageous passengers rushed the cockpit in an attempt to apprehend the hijackers. It was destined for the U.S. Capitol building.
The passing of a decade seems but a blink of an eye. We all remember how we initially heard the reports, saw the video, thinking at first it was a horrible accident — until the second plane penetrated the tower.  It’s unimaginable that few short years after these horrendous acts perpetrated by those who sought to demoralize us, our own U.S. President, Barack Hussein Obama and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg would advocate for a $100 million Islamic cultural center and mosque to be built near the site of the what came to be called Ground Zero.
Equally as bizarre is the White House’s attempt to neutralize the attacks by calling for “observing 9/11 with national service.” In fact Americans are wonderful community volunteers each and every day of the year, in countless ways. Such service is a hallmark of who we are.
But now it’s official: September 11 isn’t about the massacre of nearly 3,000 innocent Americans by Islamic fanatics. It’s about, in Obama’s words, “solving today’s most pressing challenges: clean energy, energy efficiency, health care, education, economic opportunity, veterans and military families.” We recommend Canada Free Press’ Matthew Vadum’s fine commentary titled: Obama’s Defilement of 9/11 and Michelle Malkin’s “All the Wrong 9/11 Lessons.”
The New York Times notes that the White House has issued detailed guidelines to government officials on how to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, with instructions to honor the memory of those who died on American soil but also to recall that Al Qaeda and other extremist groups have since carried out attacks elsewhere in the world, from Mumbai to Manila.
To community organizer Obama, our losses are merely a sub-set of a larger group. Let’s not linger on September 11th or the murderous perpetrators. It’s time to get on with our community service.
 

 8 Comments				|  Duplicity, Heritage, Homeland Security, Hope and Change, News, Outrage, Terrorism, Those Dems								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Crazy is as crazy does, Ms. Napolitano
September 10, 2011

Homeland InSecurity Chieftain Janet Napolitano has authorized the denial of U.S. entry to Canadians with non-violent mental health histories who desire to travel south of the border for business or family trips.
It turns out that personal information entered into the Canadian police database is accessible by American authorities. As an example, a 65-year old Toronto resident who attempted suicide several years ago was stopped at customs after showing her passport and taken to a secondary screening. There, a Customs and Border Protection officer informed her that he had information that police had come to her home in 2006.
“Mental illness is actually under our law as a reason that you may not get admitted,” says Brad Benson of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. “The issue is always going to be: could someone be a danger to someone [else]?”
 How odd that Janet Napolitano is less concerned about those coming illegally across our southern border, bringing previously eradicated, contagious diseases — in addition to drugs, weapons and criminality.  She become famous for her blasé retort when frustrated Arizonans pleaded for border action: “Show me a 50-foot fence, and I’ll show you a 51-foot ladder.”
In 2009, Napolitano inflamed American citizens with the release of a Department of Homeland Security report titled “Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment,” in which she warned of the possibility of violence by unnamed “right-wing extremists” concerned about  “illegal immigration, increasing federal power, restrictions on firearms, abortion and the loss of  U.S. sovereignty” — singling out returning war veterans as particular threats. Seeing Red AZ previously covered her irresponsible — some might say “lunatic” report.
Her not-quite-an-apology, nearly two weeks later, (“To the extent veterans read it as an accusation … an apology is owed.”) was greeted by the liberal taxpayer-subsidized National Public Radio (NPR) questioning whether an apology was even necessary.
The fact that she was born in New York City is obviously a bonus for Napolitano.  If she was a Canadian citizen, using her own restrictions, Janet Napolitano might well be precluded entry into the USA.
 

 8 Comments				|  Any core values?, Arrogance, Crime, Duplicity, Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, Law Enforcement, North American Union, Those Dems								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Philly Gordon eyes AZ U.S. Attorney post?
September 9, 2011


Who better for the liberal Obama administration to pick as a Dennis Burke replacement? Outgoing Phoenix Mayor Philly Gordon is term-limited and seeking gainful employment. And he has the requisite credentials of being a FOJ — Friend of Janet (Napolitano).
In Arizona, during the Obama administration, having a link to the radically liberal Napolitano can be a sure-fire route to the top office. It worked for her longtime aide Dennis Burke, until his complicity in the “Fast and Furious” Mexican gunrunning scandal was uncovered and he was kicked to the curb.
Both Gordon and Burke are tied to Napolitano. And like Burke, Gordon hasn’t seen the inside of a courtroom in years. That fact won’t be enough to keep the Sanctuary City mayor from lusting after the top suite in the Two Renaissance Square skyscraper. Judging by past history, a lack of actual legal experience doesn’t appear to be a disqualifier for the top job.
 

 9 Comments				|  Arizona Politics, Hope and Change, Janet Napolitano, Law Enforcement, Legal issues, Those Dems								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Obama‘s DOJ: How fast, how furious?
September 8, 2011

One of the most provocative exposés about the rogue ATF Operation Gunrunner scheme which armed Mexico’s drug cartels is this editorial in Investor’s Business Daily. Titled A White House ‘Gunrunner’? it provides background that has been buried by MSM sources regarding connections going all the way to Obama’s White House — including top officials — in the reprehensible machination known as “Fast and Furious.”
No wonder Janet Napolitano’s career underling, recently deposed U.S. Attorney for Arizona Dennis Burke, was described as weeping and nauseous when testifying before Congressional investigators before being ousted.
Now it’s been revealed that the Department of Justice released a dangerous explosives runner after he had been arrested and in custody. He was moving grenades and manufacturing improvised explosive devices, supplying weapons to cartels. Among the victims was U.S. border agent Brian Terry, whose family Burke went out of his way to disqualify as crime victims, since that would further implicate him and his minions. But last year, he expanded his duties to include different classes of victims as you can read here.
Finally, when he could avoid the topic no longer, the exceptionally mediocre Señor Juan McCain called for an investigation yesterday. Read his too-little, too-late letter here.
Take time to acquaint yourself with the facts of the deceit at the highest levels of the Obama administration.  Knowledge is power.
 

 10 Comments				|  Any core values?, Congress, Crime, Deception, Duplicity, Economics, Hope and Change, Law Enforcement, McStench, National Politics, Terrorism, Those Dems								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Maricopa County GOP launches independent campaign to aid Sen. Russell Pearce
September 8, 2011

Rallying to the aid of Sen. Russell Pearce, the Maricopa County Republican Party has formed an independent expenditure committee and fundraising website to support the Arizona Senate President in a politically motivated recall against him. The election in the East Valley Legislative District 18  is scheduled for November 8, 2011.  Online donations can be made at the Elect Russell Pearce website.
“Liberal groups from around the country are planning to bombard Senate President Russell Pearce with negative attacks,” said Maricopa County Republican Chairman Rob Haney.  “Our independent committee will tell the truth about Russell Pearce’s extraordinary record in a way that Russell Pearce may be too modest to do himself.”
“I urge all Republicans and patriots to make a donation.  There are no contribution limits to our committee and corporate contributions are allowed.  We can and must do more to help Russell,” said Haney.
“Senator Russell Pearce deserves great credit for leading Republicans to a two-thirds majority in both Houses of the Arizona Legislature in 2010,” said Chad Kirkpatrick, former cabinet member to Governor Jan Brewer and long-time Chairman of the Arizona chapter of Americans for Prosperity.  “SB 1070 was a victory to those who care about our national security and the integrity of our nation’s laws,” Kirkpatrick said.  “Now Russell needs our help.”
“While the origins of the money that paid to put his recall on the ballot remain a mystery, the goals of the liberals who oppose Russell Pearce are not,” said Chairman Haney. “We must protect Arizona by telling the voters the truth about Russell Pearce and his record.”
The legal name of this independent expenditure committee is “Maricopa GOP to Elect Russell Pearce.” It is the independent expenditure committee of the Maricopa County Republican Party.  Online donations can be made at the Maricopa GOP to Elect Russell Pearce website – ElectRussellPearce.com.
Contributions may also be mailed to: 
Maricopa GOP to Elect Russell Pearce
21001 N. Tatum Blvd, Suite 1610-813
Phoenix, AZ 85050
The Legal ID# of Campaign Committee is 201200180.
Arizonans who support Russell Pearce are encouraged to donate today at the Maricopa GOP to Elect Russell Pearce website.
 

 9 Comments				|  Arizona issues, Arizona Politics, Elections, GOP Legislative Districts, Integrity, News, Politics of personal destruction, We have a voice								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



Lopsided numbers of Hispanic felons concerns left
September 7, 2011

Just a few more good people coming to do the work Americans refuse to do
The newly released U.S. Sentencing Commission Quarterly Preliminary Data Report reveals that for the first time, Hispanics comprise 50.3 percent of all federal felons sentenced in the first nine months of 2011. Blacks represent 19.7 percent and whites 26.4 percent of those sentenced.
An interesting twist on the facts as reported in the Periódico de la República de Arizona (Arizona Republic) is that this “seismic demographic shift” is “swollen by immigration offenses.”
The newspaper laments “last year Hispanics made up just 16 percent of the total U.S. population.” It would like readers to believe that the increase in sentencing is due chiefly to a surge in charging felony immigration crimes,  including illegal entry into the U.S., as well as other crimes such as alien smuggling. We are told that immigration related crimes accounted for the growth in the number of Hispanics sent to federal prison.
Bear in mind that first time illegal aliens rarely receive federal prison time. Additionally, deportations have been routine for foreign nationals who come here in violation of the law.
What a surprise that the newspaper seems to have overlooked the extensive lists of crimes (included in the federal report) for which these criminals are serving time. Among them: Murder, manslaughter, kidnapping, sexual abuse, assault, robbery, arson, drug trafficking, burglary, auto theft, firearms violations, fraud, embezzlement, forgery, counterfeiting, extortion, child pornography — and — immigration related offenses.
In an effort to win Hispanic votes for his 2012 reelection Obama recently halted deportation proceedings against illegal aliens not currently convicted of “serious crimes.” Breaking and entering our homeland is apparently not all that serious, when an election is on the horizon.
This skewed reporting has been an ongoing agenda for the newspaper. Take it with a grain of salt.
 

 4 Comments				|  Illegal Immigration, Deception, Law Enforcement, News, Those Dems, Crime, Hope and Change, Arizona issues								 |  Permalink
 Posted by seeingredaz				



« Previous Entries





Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
 0


Categories

Academia?

Any core values?

Arizona issues

Arizona Politics

Arrogance

AZ DC delgation

Beating the drum

Columnists

Congress

County and City Issues

Crime

Culture and Society

Deception

Duplicity

Economics

Education

Elections

Environment

Faith

First Amendment

Foolishness

Global politics

GOP Legislative Districts

Gov. Jan Brewer

Greater Phoenix Politics

Health

Heritage

Homeland Security

Hope and Change

Illegal Immigration

Integrity

J.D. Hayworth

Janet Napolitano

Jeff Flake

Judicial

Law Enforcement

Legal issues

Legislative Issues

Maricopa County

McStench

Media

Military

Mirth

National Politics

News

North American Union

Outrage

Parental rights

Political Correctness

Politics of personal destruction

President Bush

Presidential campaigns

Sanctity of Life Issues

Second Amendment

Technology

Terrorism

Those Dems

U.S. Constitution

Uncategorized

We have a voice



Blogroll

American Spectator
American Thinker
Arizona Conservative
Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Senate Republicans
George Will
Gila Courier
Goldwater Institute
Growing Our Party
Heritage Foundation
Michelle Malkin
National Review
PAChyderm Coalition
POLITICO
Sonoran Alliance
Sonoran News
The Conservative Voice
The Hill
Thomas Sowell
USA
WorldNetDaily


Meta

Register Log in
Valid XHTML
XFN
WordPress.com






	Theme: Contempt by Vault9. 
Blog at WordPress.com.
	















