Arizona Politics for Conservatives: Sonoran Alliance

HomeAboutContactConservative DocumentariesAdvertiseSupportFollow us on TwitterArizona Politics for Conservatives: Sonoran AllianceArizona Politics, News, Commentary and Information with a Blatantly Conservative Worldview Presented by an Alliance of Writers, Activists, Consultants and Government Insiders. 


 Tweet Statewide Rally to Support State Senate President Pearce
September 12, 2011  By American Post Gazette 22 Comments  
A m e r i c a n  P o s t – G a z e t t e
Distributed by C O M M O N  S E N S E , in Arizona

September 12, 2011








Join Us For A Statewide Rally 
to Support 
State Senate President Russell Pearce!









Conservatives are coming together from all across Arizona to   support Senator Russell Pearce against the RECALL!
  
WHERE:    Hohokam Stadium (Chicago Cubs Stadium)
                       1235 N. Center Street, Mesa, Az. 85201
WHEN:      FRIDAY, October 14th (Rally)
TIME:         7:00pm (gates open at 6:00pm)
  ALSO:      SATURDAY Morning, October 15th
                    Walk Senator Pearce’s District and
           Volunteer to make calls from a Phone Bank
                    (Time and location coming soon)
 SPEAKERS FOR FRIDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 14TH!
*Sheriff Joe Arpaio * Sheriff Paul Babeu * Mike Broomhead KFYI Radio
* Senator Andy Biggs * Senator Steve Smith * Representative Michelle Ugenti * Representative John Kavanaugh * Representative Eddie Farnsworth * Superintendent John Huppenthal * GOP Chair Tom Morrissey
(And Many Others to be announced)
For more information about this Rally go to:
www.defendpearce.com







 
















Filed Under: Arizona Politics, Campaigns & Elections, Conservatives, Elected Officials, National Security 


 Tweet Former Mayor Paul Johnson Endorses Wes Gullett
September 12, 2011  By Press Release Leave a Comment  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 12, 2011
CONTACT: Daniel Scarpinato
Cites Gullett’s independence and experience bringing people together
PHOENIX — Wes Gullett is excited to announce that he has received the endorsement of former Phoenix Mayor and businessman Paul Johnson, adding to a broad, bipartisan coalition committed to getting Phoenix working again.
“Wes will bring a new perspective to city government, an independent leader we need to create jobs and bring Phoenicians together,” Johnson said. “Our community needs new jobs, new ideas and new leadership. Wes Gullett has a record of creating businesses and bringing people together. We need him as Mayor. I know what it takes to be Mayor and Wes can get the job done.”
“I’m honored to have Paul Johnson’s support,” Gullett said. “Paul is a successful businessman, known for his independence and his innovation. This campaign is about jobs and moving Phoenix forward, and Paul’s support is testament to that. We need Republicans, Democrats and Independents to work together in order to meet Phoenix’s challenges.”
Paul Johnson is a successful businessman, political Independent and former Democrat. He was Phoenix mayor from 1990 to 1994 and was the 1998 Democratic gubernatorial nominee. He has a record of creating jobs in the private sector and bring people across party lines together for the betterment of Phoenix.
###
 

Filed Under: Campaigns & Elections, City Government, Elected Officials, Endorsements Tagged With: Mayor of Phoenix, Paul Johnson, Phoenix, Phoenix Elections, Wes Gullett 


 Tweet BREAKING NEWS: Another Life Victory! Planned Parenthood Won’t Appeal Abortion Consent Act to State Supreme Court
September 12, 2011  By Center for Arizona Policy Leave a Comment  

Arizona’s largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, announced today that they would not appeal to the Arizona Supreme Court the Court of Appeals ruling which upheld the 2009 Abortion Consent Act.
This is yet another victory for those who care for women and preborn children. Lives will be spared now that these common sense health and safety standards will be going into effect.
The new provisions include:

The state will require a notarized parental signature before an abortion can be performed on a minor child.
Women will be provided with full and accurate information by a doctor in person at least 24 hours before an abortion.
Medical professionals cannot be forced to perform abortions if it contradicts their sincerely held religious or moral beliefs.
Non-doctors will not be permitted by law to perform surgical abortions.

Planned Parenthood said they will continue to challenge parts of the Arizona’s abortion clinic regulations as applied to the distribution of the dangerous and deadly abortion pill.
Arizona’s women deserve better than Planned Parenthood’s “quantity over quality” standard of care for women considering abortion. Center for Arizona Policy remains committed to seeing all aspects of the Abortion Consent Act and Abortion Clinic Regulations fully enacted.
For more information on the Abortion Consent Act visit CAP’s information page: http://bit.ly/qDCDpv
To read the decision from the Court of Appeals click here: http://bit.ly/r2m5QU

Filed Under: Health Care, Sanctity of Life Tagged With: Abortion Consent Act, Center for Arizona Policy, Planned Parenthood 


 Tweet “Another Daffy Ninth Circuit Ruling”
September 9, 2011  By Center for Arizona Policy 45 Comments  




“Another Daffy Ninth Circuit Ruling”


So writes Ed Whelan about this week’s Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision on an Arizona law regarding domestic partner benefits. The Court upheld a temporary injunction blocking a 2009 bill that limits state employee benefits for dependents to married employees. The law, signed by Governor Brewer, reversed a Napolitano administration order granting employee dependent benefits to unmarried domestic partners.
The majority of Arizonans favor marriage being recognized only as the union of one man and one woman. Arizona public policy as determined by our state elected officials does not recognize sexual orientation or domestic partners as a protected group in our anti-discrimination laws. Yet the Court has sided with homosexual activists and their agenda to make marriage laws meaningless through the granting of legal recognition and benefits to same sex partners. The Court’s opinion is another example of judges making law, not interpreting the law. Determining eligibility of benefits for state employees is a policy matter to be decided by the legislative and executive branches, not by the judicial branch.
This battle is not over. I fully expect the Brewer administration to appeal. Please click here to send Governor Brewer an email thanking her for her support and encouraging her to continue the fight to uphold Arizona’s law limiting state employee dependent benefits to married employees.






Censored by the Court 
I want to share with you a little known story behind this ongoing litigation. With CAP as the named party, the Alliance Defense Fund filed a friend-of-the-court brief in this case explaining why it’s important that benefits only be distributed based on marital status. The Ninth Circuit Court refused to accept our brief, even though they accepted briefs from two homosexual activist organizations.









California Continues to Fight for Marriage


The ongoing legal battle over California’s Proposition 8 marriage amendment had another hearing this week. The legal defense team at Protectmarriage.com argued for their right to intervene in the case on behalf of the 7 million voters who passed Prop 8. Both the California Governor and Attorney General have refused to defend Prop 8. Read the hopeful report from our friends at the California Family Policy Council on the hearing here.
Once again, we see why elections matter, and why it is critical to elect officials that recognize the essential role of the family and marriage in society. It’s unconscionable that duly elected officials are refusing to carry out their duty to defend laws passed by the people.






Faith in Action Tour


In case you missed the news, CAP along with Truth in Action Ministries is hosting a very special event on October 29 with Dr. Del Tackett, creator of The Truth Project. Our goal is to help you discover how God can use you to impact our community, engage you with local organizations to explore specific opportunities to make a difference right where you live, and transform our community by putting God’s Word into action.
You won’t want to miss this rare opportunity to see Del speak live and connect with local ministries. Click here to register – hope to see you there!




Filed Under: Family, Government, Homosexuality, Judicial, Marriage Tagged With: 9th Circuit Court, Cathi Herrod, Center for Arizona Policy, litigation, Marriage 


 Tweet LD22 GOP Statement on Russell Pearce Recall
September 9, 2011  By Steve Calabrese 80 Comments  
The LD22 GOP meeting on Thursday night was noteworthy, as a higher-than-usual turnout showed up to elect a new 4th Vice Chair.   After the ballots were cast, an open discussion was held regarding the Russell Pearce recall.   The consensus arrived at was clear:   although as a general rule the district should not get involved in advocating for a specific candidate in primary elections, it is apparent that the Pearce Recall is a deliberate, malicious attempt to discredit the effort to secure our border, and that this effort starts by destroying Senator Russell Pearce.   Those who favor doing nothing about illegal immigration do not care what policy is made or what votes are cast in the Legislature by anyone who manages to defeat Pearce; it is obvious that powerful out-of-state, leftist interests want to see Pearce removed just for the sake of dealing a blow to the effort to combat illegal immigration.  Their greatest wish to is ensure nationwide headlines that read “Anti-Illegal Immigration Forces Dealt Stunning Blow in Arizona”.   Embarrassing and dividing the State GOP is a bonus to the leftist puppet masters.
The Pearce recall is not a primary election.   It is a bought & paid for operation designed to strike a blow against the Republican platform by removing the man who is now viewed as the face of the movement to secure our borders.   It is an attempt by those who know they cannot win a Republican primary to circumvent the normal party nomination process and focus national leftist power and funds on one small local election – not in an attempt to elect someone who sympathizes with their viewpoint, but rather an ambitious plan to score a propaganda coup.
Consequently, an overwhelming majority of precinct committeemen in one of Arizona’s largest, most diverse legislative districts came together and spoke with one voice:   WE STAND WITH RUSSELL PEARCE AGAINST LEFTIST POLITICAL MANIPULATION.
The debate was spirited.   There were those who were concerned about setting precedents about the district interfering with other districts, or getting involved in elections where two Republicans are running against each other.   And yet, the discussion maintained a high level of civility and respect.   In many cases, people who raised concerns about a precedent being set also stated that the disgrace of a recall election bought and paid for by out-of-state special interest groups was itself a unique situation in Arizona, more akin to the events in Wisconsin where union leaders attempted to recall Republicans who voted for their beliefs.  More than one person expressed the view that although they often do not support some of Pearce’s legislation, in this particular case it was more important to present a unified front against those who would attempt to splinter our party by making one of its leading figures appear weak.   For too many years, Divide and Conquer has been an effective leftist strategy.   No longer.
The members of Legislative District 22 are pleased to present this resolution, passed on September 8th, 2011,  to the public:
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING SENATOR PEARCE IN UPCOMING LEGISLATIVE DISTRICT 18 RECALL ELECTION
RESOLVED,
WHEREAS it is our belief that the recall election against Senator Russell Pearce in Arizona Legislative District 18 is an orchestrated Democratic assault against Republican principles, and
WHEREAS, the defeat of Senator Pearce is a core objective of the Democratic National Committee and Moveon.org,
WE, the members of Arizona Legislative District 22, do hereby express our support of Senator Russell Pearce.
Adopted September 8, 2011
 

Filed Under: Border, Campaigns & Elections, Conservatives, Elected Officials, Illegal Immigration, Political Parties 


 Tweet NFIB Statement on President Obama’s Jobs Address
September 8, 2011  By NFIB/Arizona Leave a Comment  

WASHINGTON, D.C., September 8, 2011 — Dan Danner, the president and CEO of the National Federation of Independent Business, issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress this evening.
“Small-business owners needed to hear something bold from President Obama tonight, but instead just heard more of the same. His plan does not address the fundamental problems facing small business today. In addition, recent history tells us that a huge federal stimulus program is the wrong approach, and again sends the message that the president thinks he can spend his way out of this recession.
“The truth is that small businesses need the government out of their way. Tax breaks are always a welcome help to small businesses, especially in these tough economic times. But those outlined tonight by the president are temporary, and avoid the question of meaningful business tax reform. Lack of sales is still a major concern and there is a great deal of uncertainty among small businesses thanks to the threat of higher taxes and the thousands of pending federal regulations. The president’s speech did little to ease those concerns.”
# # #
NFIB is the nation’s leading small business association, with offices in Washington, D.C. and all 50 state capitals. Founded in 1943 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, NFIB gives small and independent business owners a voice in shaping the public policy issues that affect their business. NFIB’s powerful network of grassroots activists send their views directly to state and federal lawmakers through our unique member-only ballot, thus playing a critical role in supporting America’s free enterprise system. NFIB’s mission is to promote and protect the right of our members to own, operate and grow their businesses. More information is available online at www.NFIB.com/newsroom.

Filed Under: Economic Development, Economics, Federal Budget, Federal Government, Government, Jobs/Labor, Press Release, Regulations, Small Business, Taxation 


 Tweet Rep. Quayle Statement on Presidential Address
September 8, 2011  By Press Release Leave a Comment  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 8, 2011
CONTACT: Richard Cullen
WASHINGTON (DC) Congressman Ben Quayle (R-AZ-03) released the following statement Thursday after President Obama’s address before a joint session of Congress:
“Tonight, the American public wanted to hear President Obama’s plan to get our economy growing again. Unfortunately, the President chose to give a campaign speech filled with straw men, false choices and recycled ideas. The ideas proposed by the President mirror the same failed policies that inhibit economic growth. Billions more in wasteful spending is not going to revive this economy. House Republicans are willing and ready to work with the Administration, but they must understand that economic growth comes from economic freedom.”
###
 

Filed Under: Elected Officials, Federal Government, Jobs/Labor, Press Release Tagged With: Ben Quayle, CD-3, Job Killers 


 Tweet Rep. Schweikert Statement on The President’s Jobs Speech
September 8, 2011  By Press Release 2 Comments  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 8, 2011
CONTACT: Rachel Semmel
Washington, D.C. – Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ) made the following statement after President Obama delivered a jobs speech to a joint session of Congress tonight:
“I appreciate that the president was willing to address the job-crushing results of over-regulation tonight, despite the fact most of them were created under his Administration. At least 219 new regulations are under consideration for the upcoming year and will cost an estimated $100 million or more. If the president is sincere in his commitment to unwinding the red tape and unleashing free enterprise, I hope he starts by repealing these 219 regulations. 
“I spent this past month travelling up and down my district talking to Arizona’s job creators, workers, and too many unemployed Arizonans about how we can get America working again. What I heard, time and again, was that regulation and uncertainty were the greatest obstacles to sustainable growth in employment. Unfortunately, this president’s response is more burdensome, overarching government. 
“This Administration’s regulatory environment has destroyed jobs and created a weak and uncertain economy. We have seen over and over that more stimulus, more government spending, and more short-term gimmicks are not the means to more jobs, but further economic decline. 
“House Republicans have passed more than a dozen pro-growth measures to address the jobs crisis this year with many more to come. It is time to stop growing government and allow the private sector to regain the confidence it needs to start employing Americans. That is a jobs plan that will work.” 
###
 
 

Filed Under: Elected Officials, Federal Government, Jobs/Labor, Press Release Tagged With: CD-5, David Schweikert, Job Killers 


 Tweet Wes Gullett: Never Forget…
September 8, 2011  By Press Release Leave a Comment  

Friends,
Sunday marks the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks that shocked and wounded our country – but which ultimately brought us together as Americans and made us stronger and safer. All of us have a story of where we were that day. And for a time, we put aside politics and petty concerns to grieve and heal as a country.
On this 10th anniversary weekend of those tragic and horrific attacks, I ask you to join me in doing that again. Join me in remembering those who were lost, and most of all, the brave first responders who put their lives on the line to save the lives of others and protect us.
This anniversary is also a time to remember and thank the men and women of our armed forces and their families for the sacrifices they have made during the past 10 years and continue to make to protect our freedoms.
Everyday here in Phoenix, thousands of police officers and firefighters wake up and put their lives on the line for our safety, never knowing what their day will be like or what dangers they may face. This weekend is a chance to honor the sacrifice they make to keep our city and our nation safe.
On Sept. 11 we pledged to “never forget.” As the son of a fireman and the brother of a soldier who was in the Pentagon when it was attacked, I renew that pledge and promise that as Mayor, I will never forget the brave sacrifices our local first responders and their families in Phoenix make each and every day to keep us safe.
Just like Democrats and Republicans sang together on the steps of the U.S. Capitol the night of Sept. 11, 2001: May God Bless America.

Wes Gullett
 
 

Filed Under: Memorial, Press Release Tagged With: September 11, Wes Gullett 


 Tweet Rep. Flake on Obama Jobs Plan: “Nothing New Here”
September 8, 2011  By Press Release Leave a Comment  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 8, 2011
CONTACT: Genevieve Frye Rozansky
More Federal Spending Isn’t the Answer
Washington, D.C. – Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona’s Sixth District, today reacted to President Obama’s address to Congress on jobs and the economy.
“President Obama’s jobs plan is unfortunately more of the same – proposals that will only drive up our debt and deficit,” said Flake. “More targeted spending and gimmicky tax breaks won’t give the private sector the confidence or stability it needs to create new jobs.”
###

Filed Under: Elected Officials, Federal Government, Jobs/Labor, Press Release Tagged With: CD-6, Jeff Flake, Job Killers 


 Tweet Spotlights to illuminate Phoenix sky in remembrance of 9/11
September 8, 2011  By Shane Wikfors Leave a Comment  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 8, 2011
CONTACT: Daniel Scarpinato
First responders, American Heroes to be honored on 10th Anniversary of Sept. 11
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (SEPTEMBER 8, 2011) – Two spotlights will shine into the Phoenix sky Sunday night in remembrance of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States of America. The spotlights will be lit outside the state Capitol as part of a remembrance ceremony this Sunday, the 10th anniversary of the attacks.
The remembrance event – “9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes” – will feature Historian Marshall Trimble, Phoenix Bishop Thomas Olmsted, Phoenix Fire Department Chief Bob Khan, and Mark Spencer representing the Arizona Police Association and the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association. The public is invited and encouraged to attend this opportunity to reflect together on the tragedy of Sept. 11 and honor those who protected us.
As part of this remembrance, residents and businesses in downtown Phoenix are being asked to turn off their lights starting at 6:30 p.m. this Sunday in honor of those who were lost on Sept. 11. The spotlights will remain illuminated through the evening.
9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes
 What: Remembrance ceremony for the 10th year anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks
When: This Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011; 6:30 p.m.
Where: Front of Old State Capitol, 1700 W. Washington, Phoenix, AZ 85007
Opening Remarks
Marshall Trimble
Posting of the Colors
Police Fire Department Honor Guard
God Bless America
Marshall Trimble
Invocation
Bishop Thomas J. Olmsted
Remarks
Chief Bob Khan, Phoenix Fire Department
Mark Spencer, Arizona Police Association & President, Phoenix Law Enforcement Association
Russell Pearce, President of the Arizona State Senate
Andy Tobin, Speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives
Spotlights in remembrance of Sept. 11 attacks
###

Filed Under: Elected Officials, Memorial, Press Release Tagged With: September 11 


 Tweet Greater Phoenix Tea Party Patriots to Participate in 1st Ever Tea Party Presidential Debate!
September 8, 2011  By Sonoran Alliance 2 Comments  

Please join the Greater Phoenix Tea Party Patriots next Monday night as they actually participate in the Presidential debate hosted by the Tea Party Express in Tampa Florida.
Date: Monday, September 12, 2011
 Time: 5:00-8:00 PM
 Location: Anywhere with access to CNN
This underreported Presidential debate will be held in Tampa, FL at 8pm EST/5pm PST on CNN. This event is hosted by Tea Party Express. We have yet to see any coverage of this event on any media outlet. It is up to us to spread the word now so people will be able to watch this unique and historic event.
Over 700 tea party leaders will attend the debate in Tampa. Questions have been submitted to CNN by the patriots and will be asked by the moderators. Additionally, viewing parties will be held around the country to watch the debate. CNN has chose 3 cities to broadcast remotely from, and questions will also be submitted by patriots in these cities, which include Phoenix, Cincinnati, and Virginia Beach.
It will be interesting to see how CNN treats the Conservative base in this debate. Please work your magic and get this event to go viral, as we counteract the media’s silence!
Please share this on Facebook!

Filed Under: Debates Tagged With: Greater Phoenix Tea Party Patriots, Tea Party 


 Tweet Pinal County Supervisor Bryan Martyn Endorses Salmon
September 8, 2011  By Press Release Leave a Comment  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 8, 2011
CONTACT: Adam Deguire
“Very few elected officials have a track record as solidly conservative and accomplished as Matt Salmon and I am honored to support his campaign to return to Congress” 
EAST VALLEY – Former Congressman and candidate for Arizona’s 6th Congressional District Matt Salmon announced today that his campaign has received the endorsement from Republican Pinal County Supervisor Bryan Martyn. Martyn released the following statement regarding his endorsement of Matt Salmon:
“Very few elected officials have a track record as solidly conservative and accomplished as Matt Salmon and I am honored to support his campaign to return to Congress. With Matt, his word is his bond and he will bring to Washington the same strong principles he served with in Congress before. I’m excited to join a growing coalition of exceptional public servants who have endorsed Matt Salmon for Congress.”
“Bryan Martyn is unquestionably one of the rising conservative leaders in Arizona and I am thrilled to have his support,” stated Matt Salmon. “Bryan’s distinguished military record has enabled him to lead his county with impeccable integrity and strong leadership. Bryan represents the very best in our party and I am excited to work with him to get our country and state headed in the right direction.”
About Bryan Martyn
Retired United States Air Force Helicopter Pilot Bryan Martyn was elected to represent District Two on the Pinal County Board of Supervisors in 2008, coming to local public service after more than 20 years of serving the nation.
Raised in Arizona, Martyn graduated from Embry Riddle Aeronautical University with a Bachelor’s in Aeronautics and later received his graduate degree in Defense Management from American Military University. Since his retirement, Martyn, has graduated from the prestigious Valley Leadership Program (Class XXVIII) and Hispanic Leadership Institute-Pinal (Class VI).
In his service to the nation, Martyn served in both the Army and the Air Force. He flew combat aircraft, such as the AH-64A Apache Helicopter and the Sikorsky MH-53M Pave Low. His combat experience includes tours in Desert Shield/Storm, Bosnia, Africa and multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Currently, Martyn lives in San Tan Valley with his wife of 24 years, Susie, and three sons.
About Matt Salmon
Matt Salmon was first elected to the United States Congress in 1994 and served until 2000, honoring his term limit pledge. A proud fiscal conservative, Salmon was rated in the top five among all 535 members of the House and Senate by Citizen’s Against Government Waste for all six years he was in office. He is a lifetime member of the NRA with an A+ rating and also earned a 100% rating by the National Right to Life. He was also the proud recipient of the American Cancer Society’s “Top National Elected Official” award.
Matt Salmon has received endorsements from Arizona Congressman Trent Franks, former Arizona Congressman John Shadegg, Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, South Dakota Senator John Thune, East Valley mayors Gail Barney (Queen Creek), Hugh Hallman (Tempe) and John Insalaco (Apache Junction).
###
 
 
 

Filed Under: Campaigns & Elections, Elected Officials, Endorsements Tagged With: Bryan Martyn, CD-6, Matt Salmon 


 Tweet Clean Elections Commission taps taxpayer dollars to save itself
September 8, 2011  By Goldwater Institute 3 Comments  
by Carrie Ann Sitren
Goldwater Institute
Arizona’s Citizens Clean Elections Commission is dirtying up politics. Afraid of a proposal on next year’s ballot that would end the commission’s funding, the commission is using taxpayer money to run ads against the ballot measure.
This ad campaign means that taxpayers who actually support ending funding for the commission could end up paying for the “no” ads – not exactly clean or fair politics.
But there’s more. The commission’s ads mislead by claiming the program uses no taxpayer money. Clean Elections receives revenue from a $5 voluntary check-off box on Arizona tax returns. But the check-off is not a typical tax credit that designates a portion of your taxes for the fund. Neither is it a donation. Instead, checking the box just reduces state revenues by increasing your refund or decreasing your tax liability by $5. It also triggers a $5 appropriation from the state’s general fund to the commission. The total cost to the state is $10 for every taxpayer who checks the box, and last year, the commission reaped $8 million in funding from check-offs.
Talk about muddying the waters. The Citizens Clean Elections Commission should live up to its name and stop using public money to sway elections.
Carrie Ann Sitren is an attorney with the Goldwater Institute’s Scharf-Norton Center for Constitutional Litigation.
Learn More:
Goldwater Institute: Supreme Court Declares Arizona’s Matching Funds System Unconstitutional

Arizona Legislature: S.C.R. 1025 (No Taxpayer Subsidies for Political Campaigns Act)
Arizona Legislature: Fact Sheet for S.C.R. 1025

Filed Under: Advertising, Arizona Politics, Ballot Measures, Campaign Finance, Campaigns & Elections, Initiative(s), Spending, State Government, Taxation 


 Tweet Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential Debate
September 8, 2011  By Western Free Press 13 Comments  


View This Poll

Filed Under: Campaigns & Elections Tagged With: Debate, Elections, GOP, Politico, Western Free Press 


 Tweet Movers & Shakers – September 10th
September 7, 2011  By Shane Wikfors Leave a Comment  
Please join Lisa Keegan, Sharon Giese, Farrell Quinlan and me, Saturday, September 10th for some great conversation about Arizona policy and politics. Special thanks to Legislative District Chairman, Lisa Gray, for putting this great program series together!

[Download Flyer]

Filed Under: Special Event Tagged With: Farrell Quinlan, LD-9, Lisa Gray, Lisa Keegan, Shane Wikfors, Sharon Giese 


 Tweet Attorney General Tom Horne Goes to Court to Compel AIRC Members to End Stonewalling
September 7, 2011  By Press Release 1 Comment  
Arizona Attorney General, Tom Horne released the following statement and documents regarding the investigation of the Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission:

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 7, 2011
CONTACT: Amy Rezzonico
AG HORNE GOES TO COURT TO COMPEL THREE ARIZONA INDEPENDENT REDISTRICTING COMMISSION MEMBERS TO END STONEWALLING OF POSSIBLE OPEN MEETING LAW VIOLATIONS PROBE
PHOENIX (Wednesday, September 7, 2011) —  A copy of the action and exhibits filed by Attorney General Tom Horne is attached.
Petition for Enforcement of Written Investigative Demands and Application for Order to Show Cause
Exhibits to Petition for Enforcement of Written Investigative Demands and Application for Order to Show Cause
###

Filed Under: Crime and Punishment, Elected Officials, Judicial, Press Release, State Government Tagged With: Attorney General, Tom Horne 

« Older Posts 

About Sonoran Alliance
Arizona politics, news, commentary and information with a blatantly conservative worldview presented by an alliance of writers, activists, consultants and government insiders.

 














 Recent Posts

Statewide Rally to Support State Senate President Pearce
Former Mayor Paul Johnson Endorses Wes Gullett
BREAKING NEWS: Another Life Victory! Planned Parenthood Won’t Appeal Abortion Consent Act to State Supreme Court
“Another Daffy Ninth Circuit Ruling”
LD22 GOP Statement on Russell Pearce Recall
NFIB Statement on President Obama’s Jobs Address
Rep. Quayle Statement on Presidential Address
Rep. Schweikert Statement on The President’s Jobs Speech
Wes Gullett: Never Forget…
Rep. Flake on Obama Jobs Plan: “Nothing New Here”
Spotlights to illuminate Phoenix sky in remembrance of 9/11
Greater Phoenix Tea Party Patriots to Participate in 1st Ever Tea Party Presidential Debate!
Pinal County Supervisor Bryan Martyn Endorses Salmon
Clean Elections Commission taps taxpayer dollars to save itself
Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential Debate
Movers & Shakers – September 10th
Attorney General Tom Horne Goes to Court to Compel AIRC Members to End Stonewalling
Del Dawley for Chairman of the Pima County Republican Party
Tea Party Zombies Must Die! – More Leftist Hypocrisy
Mexican-American “Raza” Expert Panel Discussion Open to the Public: Event will be Streaming LIVE!



 Categories


2nd Amendment (65)

Advertising (96)

Animal Rights (5)

Arizona Politics (22)

Arts (15)

Ballot Measures (9)

Blogs (105)

Border (235)

Campaign Finance (175)

Campaigns & Elections (2349)

Charity (5)

City Government (203)

Conservatives (16)

Conspiracy Theories (34)

Constitutional Law (214)

County Government (253)

Crime and Punishment (356)

Culture (110)

Debates (28)

Debt (54)

Demographics (54)

Drugs (2)

Economic Development (68)

Economics (227)

Education (203)

Elected Officials (223)

Endorsements (225)

Energy (51)

Environment (55)

Ethics (187)

Family (78)

Federal Budget (180)

Federal Government (84)

Food (14)

Foreign Policy (31)

Freedom of Speech (180)

Gaming (6)

Government (457)

Government Reform (47)

Guest Opinion (115)

Health Care (178)

History (73)

Holiday (19)

Homosexuality (55)

Housing (1)

Human Condition (94)

Illegal Aliens (208)

Illegal Employment (94)

Illegal Immigration (426)

Initiative(s) (23)

International Trade (11)

Interview (81)

Jobs/Labor (45)

Judicial (176)

Legislation (217)

Liberals (63)

Marriage (28)

Media (333)

Memorial (25)

Migrants (20)

Military (38)

Movies (6)

National Security (128)

Obituary (1)

PAC's (8)

Personalities (43)

Pledges (4)

Pol-parazzi (21)

Political Correctness (51)

Political Parties (578)

Political Science (113)

Polls (86)

Predictions (30)

Press Release (784)

Privacy (24)

Property Rights (15)

Protests (44)

Public Relations (17)

Public Safety (28)

Race Relations (70)

Regulations (41)

Religion (49)

Roll Call (6)

Sanctity of Life (204)

Small Business (7)

Social Security (6)

Special Event (293)

Spending (389)

Sports (11)

State Budget (286)

State Economy (103)

State Government (390)

States Rights (53)

Talk Radio (7)

Taxation (346)

Technology (14)

Terrorism (33)

Town Hall (34)

Transportation (40)

Travel (13)

Uncategorized (338)

Veterans (24)

Voter Registration (30)

Voters Guide (25)

Welfare (13)






 Links

9-12 Project Show
American Conservative Republican
American Freedom by Barbara
American Political Analysis
Americans for Prosperity – AZ
Angry Right Wing Housewife
Arizona Ballotpedia
Arizona Desert Lamp
Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Liberty Project PAC
Arizona Mainstream Project
Arizona Republic Political Insider
Arizona Taxpayers Action Committee
Ash for Arizona
AZ GOP
AZ Judges Review
AZ Senate Republicans
AZConservative
Center for Arizona Policy
Courthouse Steps
East Valley Tea Party
Elect Russell Pearce
Eric Frederick Phoenix City Council
Espresso Pundit
Exurban League
Following Phoenix
Gila Courier
Gilbert Watch
Governor – Jan Brewer
Great Satan, Inc.
Hair on Fire by Barbara
Illegal Immigration Journal
Intellectual Conservative
Liberty
Libertys Apothecary
Lighthouse Blog
Lost Dutchman
Mesa Issues
Mesa’s Fedpapers
Not Thelda Williams
Papa Todd
Pima County YR’s
Political Arizona
Politicker AZ
Politico Mafioso
Politics on the Rocks
Prop 13 Arizona
Pullen for the Party
Real AZ Women
Real Clear Politics
Red Mountain Xeriscape
Red Zonies
Seeing Red AZ
Shame On Phoenix
Smart Girl Politics – AZ
Sonoran Alliance – Facebook
Sonoran Alliance – Picasa
Sonoran Alliance – Twitter
Sonoran Alliance – YouTube
Sonoran News
Sonoran Weekly Review
Tea Dump
Tea Party Tribune
Thoughts of a Conservative Christian
Thoughts On Mesa
Tucson Choices
United We Stand for America
Western Free Press





 Archives

 September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006





 Tag Cloud

Abortion
Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission
Arizona Politics
AZGOP
Balanced Budget Amendment
Ben Quayle
Cathi Herrod
CD-1
CD-3
CD-5
CD-6
CD-8
Center for Arizona Policy
City of Phoenix
Cut Cap Balance
David Schweikert
Dean Martin
Debt Ceiling
Gabrielle Giffords
Harry Mitchell
Jan Brewer
Janet Contreras
JD Hayworth
Jeff Flake
Jennifer Wright
Jesse Kelly
Jim Waring
John Huppenthal
John McCain
Jon Kyl
Kirk Adams
LD-18
Matt Salmon
Mayor of Phoenix
National Debt
Paul Babeu
Paul Gosar
Peggy Neely
Phoenix City Council
Phoenix Elections
Russell Pearce
Scott Bundgaard
Tea Party
Trent Franks
Wes Gullett



 

September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 



Subscribe
Subscribe to Sonoran Alliance by Email







Meta

Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org


 



Pages 
About
Advertise
Conservative Documentaries
Contact
Support


Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org




 Recent Posts 
Statewide Rally to Support State Senate President Pearce
Former Mayor Paul Johnson Endorses Wes Gullett
BREAKING NEWS: Another Life Victory! Planned Parenthood Won’t Appeal Abortion Consent Act to State Supreme Court
“Another Daffy Ninth Circuit Ruling”
LD22 GOP Statement on Russell Pearce Recall










 












Return to top of pageCopyright © 2011 · Sonoran Alliance by Adeptplus · Log in
