 

 SBRC Blog 










SBRC Home
SBRC Blog
The Conservative Report

About
Position Papers



Join The Saddlebrooke Republican Club 
Join or Renew on-line! 
Join or Renew by mail

WELCOME TO THE SBRC BLOG! YOUR PLATFORM!
All articles posted here on the SBRC Blog pages are authored by Saddlebrooke Republican Club members. This blog site is provided by the club as means to have discourse with both the authors of the articles and with others making comments. 
All members of the Saddlebrooke Republican Club are welcomed and encouraged to join in the blog by either submitting articles, adding comments or both!
Comments are subject to approval and moderation. We remind everyone that The SaddleBrooke Republican Club promotes a civil society where ideas and debate flourish. Please be respectful of each other and the subjects of any criticism. While we may not always agree on policy, we should all agree that being appropriately informed is everyone's intention visiting this site. Personal attacks, and other forms of incivility will not be allowed. Please keep your thoughts brief and avoid ALL CAPS. While we respect your first amendment rights, we are obligated to our readers to maintain these standards. Thanks for joining the conversation. (Source of Blog requirements,:  The Heritage Foundation)
Events and Speakers 
Meetings: 2nd Wednesday of every month 
Time: doors open at 3:45 PM, meetings start at: 4:15 PM
Place: MountainView Ballroom




September 14, Program
Diane Cohen, 
Senior attorneyGoldwater’s Scharf-Norton Center for Constitutional Ligationand Lead Attorney on Obamacare and Tucson Property Rights
Happy Hour After the Meeting!



October 10, Program
Sheriff Joe Arpaio
Desert View Theatre


November 9, Program
Brigadier General
Dominic P. Rocco, Jr.  U.S. Army retired
Entered service as an enlisted man and retired as a Brigadier General.
SBRC - Election of directors
Happy Hour After the Meeting!

December 7
SBRC Christmas Party
American Issues Discussion Group Meetings 
Tuesdays

9:30 AM-11:00 AM
May 3rd Thru Aug 30
MountainView CC
Saguaro Room

Join with members to discuss Hot topics, share interests, ask Questions and become better Informed about the issues
HELPFUL INFORMATION 
About
Position Papers

Executive Summary: Reversing America’s Energy Death Spiral
Health Care
Health Care Letter
Reversing America’s Energy Death Spriral





Civility- Obama Style
   Posted by  Ted Kennedy  on    September 5, 2011    
	    

Civility- Obama Style	
It was January 8, 2011 and Congresswoman Gabby Giffords was about to speak with her constituents in what she called, “congress on the corner.” Suddenly shots were heard, screams penetrated the crowd. It was over in a minute and six lay dead, Congresswoman Giffords near death but her life miraculous saved by quick thinking staff and first responders. The assailant, a troubled young man who will never come to trial as he is obviously insane.
It was defining moment in the Obama administration. The president had to bring the nation together and heal the wounds. This was not an act of political outrage as the shooter had no ties to any political party. No, this was pure insanity and anger, anger at everyone and six lay dead. Obama told us we had live together and heal this wound, the word of the day and the tragedy became civility. He would resonate this word in future speeches and urge all Americans to abide by it. 
Now here we are only nine months later and Obama supporters are turning a deaf ear to their leader. James Hoffa was the opening act for Obama in Detroit yesterday and he proved he is just a chip off the block and the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree. His father was a profane and corrupt labor leader until someone took him out. His body was never found. His progeny is falling right behind in his footsteps. James Hoffa Jr. extolled the union crowd to “take these son of bitches out” while raving against the TEA party and members of the GOP.
Civility- Obama style.
He ranted on: “We got to keep an eye on the battle that we face: The war on workers. And you see it everywhere, it is the Tea Party. And you know, there is only one way to beat and win that war. The one thing about working people is we like a good fight. And you know what? They’ve got a war, they got a war with us and there’s only going to be one winner. It’s going to be the workers of Michigan, and America. We’re going to win that war,” Hoffa said.
And there was more. “President Obama, this is your army. We are ready to march…. Everybody here’s got to vote. If we go back and keep the eye on the prize, let’s take these son of a bitches out and give America back to an America where we belong,” he added.
I am a man of peace. I saw enough war in Viet Nam. We do not need firebrand hysteria like this in the United States. Screaming epithets like Mr. Hoffa will get the democrats nowhere. It only exposes the seamy side of their party and supporters. Pure thuggery.
What bothers me is, “what are they afraid of?” What is making them turn to this vile form rhetoric? How have they been offended? This is America where everyone has a voice and to hear diatribe as filthy as this does no one any good.
Where is Mr. Obama? Did he condemn this? Not likely.
I ask all the democrats out there. What are you afraid of?


 Categories: Opinion  |    
	      No Comments »


Arizona kids worse than most in poverty, health, and foreclosure
   Posted by  Vince Leach  on    August 17, 2011    
	    

Arizona kids worse than most in poverty, health, and foreclosure
Read more: http://www.azcentral.com/news/articles/2011/08/17/20110817arizona-kids-worse-than-most-poverty-health-foreclosure.html#ixzz1VIKuIROx
The word “poverty” is fast becoming the operative word in the world of the progressives.  They have worked long and hard to paint a picture of the poverty stricken washing clothes in the river and eating at soup kitchens.
A recent study by Heritage examined this poverty picture and found some interesting details.
“For most Americans, the word “poverty” suggests destitution: an inability to provide a family with nutritious food, clothing, and reasonable shelter. For example, the Poverty Pulse poll taken by the Catholic Campaign for Human Development asked the general public: “How would you describe being poor in the U.S.?” The overwhelming majority of responses focused on homelessness, hunger or not being able to eat properly, and not being able to meet basic needs.[1] That perception is bolstered by news stories about poverty that routinely feature homelessness and hunger.”
“Yet if poverty means lacking nutritious food, adequate warm housing, and clothing for a family, relatively few of the more than 30 million people identified as being “in poverty” by the Census Bureau could be characterized as poor.[2] While material hardship definitely exists in the United States, it is restricted in scope and severity. The average poor person, as defined by the government, has a living standard far higher than the public imagines.”
“Poor families certainly struggle to make ends meet, but in most cases, they are struggling to pay for air conditioning and the cable TV bill as well as to put food on the table. Their living standards are far different from the images of dire deprivation promoted by activists and the mainstream media.”
Read more at: http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/07/what-is-poverty
Taking from the rich and give to the poor, the tenets of Marxism
Dr. Ileana Johnson Paugh writes Monday, August 1, 2011 “The lines become blurred and thus poverty becomes income inequality, making progressives scream that we must bring about social justice, taking from the rich and give to the poor, the tenets of Marxism”
“Our market system does not guarantee income equality. Progressives write and talk ad nauseam about the distribution of income in the U.S. having grown substantially more unequal since the 1980s.  Liberals demand that incomes be equal. If their demands were rational, they would understand that it is impossible, even under their beloved communism to have income equality. There are many reasons why incomes are unequal:

People have different      capabilities, some can do math quicker, speak better, run faster, ski      better, type more accurately, paint better, have better entrepreneurial      skills, better IQs, are more inventive, more creative, more musical than      others
People can work longer      hours than others, labor more intensely – such disparities of income are      largely voluntary
People take risks with      stock market, a new business – Bill Gates and Steve Jobs come to mind
People work in      dangerous jobs that are reflected in compensating wage differentials –      people who work the night shift receive higher wages
People who are schooled      or better trained receive higher pay; they have sacrificed current income      to study in order that they may receive a higher income in the future
More work experience      commands higher wages
People who have      inherited wealth do not necessarily derive their income from work – think      of the Rockefellers
People who inherit      human capital wealth command higher wages – persons whose families have      attended Ivy League colleges will likely benefit from this tradition and      attend the same college, thus the process will result in higher wages for      them.
Luck is an insidious      cause of wage differentials – good or bad fortune can help one digger to      find gold or oil and other to find water or just rocks”

Is there a place for Conservative Compassion in the world today?  Absolutely, and Conservatives should do every thing possible to insure those most in need are served.  I just don’t believe that included paying for Xbox games and the like should be included or that Conservatives should be made to feel guilty when hard questions are asked.
 


 Categories: Opinion  |    
	      No Comments »


Arizona IRC ED Denies Budget Recommendation
   Posted by  Richard Brinkley  on    August 16, 2011    
	    

It was at the Independent Redistricting Commission hearing that SaddleBrooke resident Vince Leach rose to speak before the Commission. Leach spoke to the cover-ups and legal battles in which the Commission is currently engaged (as reported by numerous news media).  Leach urged the Commission to be transparent and focus on the real issue: redistricting.
 Leach mentioned to the Commissioners that the Commission’s budget, for the ten year cycle, is $10 million as recommended by the Department of Administration and reported by the Joint Legislative Budget Committee (JLBC). Leach was concerned that the last Commission cycle budget was $6 million but had to be increased to $9.5 million due to lawsuits filed against the Commission’s redistricting. Would this year’s budget also see a 58% increase, to $15.8 million, due to lawsuits filed against Commission decisions and backroom machinations?
 After concluding his remarks, Leach returned to his seat in the “overflow” room. Before he could sit down, Ray Bladine, Executive Director of the Commission, confronted Leach, accusing him of providing false numbers. Leach provided a copy of the JLBC report, verifying the Department of Administration ten year $10.2 million budget recommendation.
 Bladine, in spite of having seen the JLBC report, countered that the numbers were false. He accused Leach of presenting misleading material, which Leach denied. Bladine then stated, “Now I know what I am dealing with,” or words to that effect. When Leach asked Bladine to explain his comment, Bladine refused, repeating, “Now I know what I am dealing with.”
 Bladine then placed his hand against Leach’s shoulder not once but twice. Leach told Bladine to take his hand off Leach’s shoulder, his voice loud enough to draw attention and witnesses to the confrontation.
 Bladine was interviewed regarding the incident. He denied any confrontation with Mr. Leach but admitted putting his hand against Leach’s shoulder. Bladine further stated that this year’s budget appropriation was $3.5 million. He neither acknowledged that Leach was discussing the 10 year cycle not just a single fiscal year nor admitted that the Department of Administration had made a budget recommendation for $10 million.
 It seems unusual that an Executive Director of the IRC would not know that the Department of Administration had recommended a budget of $10.2 million budget for the ten year redistricting cycle. This is public information.


 Categories: Arizona, Ethics, Hate language  |    
	   Tags: candor, questionable behavior, questionable memory  |        No Comments »


So How Does the Oracle School District Really Feel About SaddleBrooke?
   Posted by  Vince Leach  on    August 9, 2011    
	    

The Oracle School District posted a meeting notice for a Board  Meeting some time on 8/3 for an 8/4 Board meeting.  Topic?  Just a minor  one like how and where to allocate $13 Million if the Bond Election passes in November.  Since finding out about the Bond Issue in May, 2011, many SaddleBrooke  residents have been involved in this process and have attended all  meetings regarding the Bond Election.  This move, late, but legal, announcement, is just another effort by the Oracle School District to keep residents of the District in the dark on the details of this Bond Issue.  The following is an email exchange on 8/8 I had with Todd Kissick,  Superintendent of The Oracle School District.  Note his displeasure  with residents asking for information.  This should tell us a lot about  the mentality of the School District and the taxpayer’s position in it.
Gents  (Superintendent Kissick and Board President Steffens)
8/4 Board meeting–Legal announcement?–you bet.  At least twenty-four  (24) hours notice shall be given by posting in the designated public  place, the time and place, and the meeting agenda, or any change in the  meeting agenda, with the exception of an actual emergency, in which case  such notice as is appropriate to the circumstances shall be given.
Perception by SaddleBrooke  and Eagle Crest people this weekend after hearing of the meeting and  how it was announced?  Do you really want to know?  To put it mildly,  OSD did nothing by this action (or lack thereof) to strengthen their  position with residents on the bond issue.
This is $13 Million  of taxpayer money (at least $19 Million after total costs) that the  Board is asking the residents to pay out.  In put from the residents?   OSD feels that the Board and the Superintendent can make those decisions  in a vacuum, thank you very much.  Is it too much to ask of the Board  and Superintendent to have a forum to discuss the potential application  of bond funds?
Am I at fault for not checking the schedule?   You bet–but quite honestly it is impossible to check 24 hours, 1 minute  before the meeting if I don’t know the start time.
Dealing in  good faith?  Hardly.  PCCEG has been involved at every step of the  process since finding out about the Bond issue in the Miner (note: not  from the OSD Board).
Transparent?  Maybe legally, but certainly not ethically.
As had been pointed out many times to the OSD Board, OSD, SB, and ECR  have had an excellent relationship that took years to develop.  Trust  and reputation take years to develop and mere minutes to destroy.
Vince
Response from Superintendent Kissick:
Vince
Good morning.
Carmen  posted the meeting as soon as the agenda’s final draft was finished and  a quorum of board members had been confirmed.  We did not even know for  sure that we were going to have a meeting until Monday or Tuesday and  then we were waiting on confirmation from board members to see if they  could attend either the Thursday time or the Friday time.  Again, the  meeting was posted minutes after the agenda was finished, by that time  we had confirmation from a quorum of board members that they could  attend.
Thursday’s meeting changed nothing regarding the timing  or the amount of the bond.  It was simply housekeeping matters, which  enabled us to send the final information to Stone and Youngberg so that  they could complete the voter information packet.  So in reality,  Thursday’s meeting helped ensure timely distribution of information to  the voters, which appears to be the opposite of what you allude we were  doing.  Had we waited until next week it likely would have delayed the  voter pamphlet from being distributed on time.  Stone and Youngberg had  to have that information no later than Friday, but they wanted it sooner  rather than later.  In the spirit of their wishes we held the meeting  as quickly as we could within legal parameters.
On a  personal note, I am dismayed that you think so little of us especially  after the Board, my staff, and I have bent to over backwards for you on  numerous occasions. (Emphasis added)
Respectfully,
Todd
Mr. Kissick
With all due respect, I think OSD should review where the  majority of the funds come from to run the district. The residents fund  the schools and in that sense, we are customers and OSD employees are  public servants, as are the elected officials of OSD.
The job  of OSD is not only to educate the children, but to ensure that public  funds are used appropriately and educate the public on events within the  school district.  While OSD may think ‘bending over backwards’ is  beyond the call of duty, it really nothing more than the public servants  reporting to the taxpayers, an important ingredient in our Republic  form of government.
Thomas Jefferson is quoted as saying, “What  country can preserve its liberties if its rulers are not warned from  time to time that their people preserve the spirit of resistance?”
If this is spirit of resistance is troublesome to the OSD Board or the  Administration, so be it, but know that it is the people, not the OSD  School Board and Administration, that are ultimately responsible for the  OSD and the OSD Board and Administration are then charged with the  responsibility of carrying out the directives of the people.
Regards,
Vince
 
 


 Categories: Ethics, Government Spending, Tax and Spend  |    
	   Tags: Oracle School District  |        No Comments »


More Model Leadership from Pinal Co. BOS Chairman Pete Rios?
   Posted by  Vince Leach  on    August 4, 2011    
	    

Pete seems to be saying, I am a former State Senator and I am above  you low types and the law does not apply to me.  What are the probable  grounds for asking for my Driver’s License?  This after speeding? Don’t  bother me with the small stuff.  Don’t you know who I am?
Fortunately the Rios name is crumbling in Pinal Co.  Nov. ’12 should eliminate their greed and corruption.
http://pinalcountyaz.gov/Departments/Sheriff/Lists/News/DispFormA.aspx?List=b382d514-09a1-4490-80f0-4f0e76b7b4c9&ID=389
http://www.kpho.com/video?clipId=6118181&topVideoCatNo=213860&autoStart=true


 Categories: Ethics, Irrational rage, Pinal County, Unethical behavior  |    
	      No Comments »


Redistricting In AZ, More Crooked Than Previously
   Posted by  Ted Kennedy  on    August 3, 2011    
	    

On August 2nd, I was given three minutes to speak before the Arizona Independent Redsitricting Committee (AIRC). The meeting was held in South Tucson in the heart of the liberal barrio but there were a few conservatives present. I did not know until after I sat down how many. I was congratulated, applauded, given a thumbs up and some even passed me notes, thanking me. Below is the script I read from that I wrote in advance. I am sure you will find it enlightening.
 
I am Edward Kennedy and I reside at 65168 E. Emerald Ridge, Tucson in the community known as SaddleBrooke. I am a member of the non-partisan group Pinal County Citizens for Excellence in Government and  I wish to discuss two items in my allotted time. The first is the qualifications of the AIRC Chairperson, Colleen Mathis. Mrs. Mathis is unqualified to sit on the AIRC because she falsely submitted her application and was not truthful in what she wrote. She signed the application on October 12, 2010 and did not list her husband as specified by question #8 (which asks basically that all relatives and their professions be listed)  but did list her two brothers. At that time he was actively employed as the Treasurer of the Nancy Young Wright campaign. By failing to state his obvious connection to the Tucson Democratic party and candidate, she did not answer question #6 truthfully which asked if there was any possible conflict of interest in her ability to discharge her duties in a fair and impartial manner. When questioned, she said she forgot to list her husband and his occupation. This is a notarized document so it is possible she may have perjured herself as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not like to accuse people of lying when they cannot defend themselves but I will let you be the judge. How can a woman recall her brothers and not her husband? Her actions on the AIRC speak for themselves in her casting the deciding vote to hire the leftist progressive firm of Strategic Telemetry for the mapping contract. This firm has definite democratic leanings as they were the strategists for both John Kerry and Barack Obama. They are also active in recall elections against incumbent GOP officials in other states. In my opinion, this woman is unfit to hold the position on the AIRC and should resign immediately.
The second item I wish to comment on is the placement of my community of SaddleBrooke. It is the preliminary recommendation of the mapping firm that we be taken out of LD26 and placed with the community of Maricopa over one hundred miles away. This is an obvious attempt to decrease the GOP representation in an already competitive district. LD26 has roughly one third democrats, one third republicans and one third independents. Our address is Tucson! Not Maricopa or Casa Grande. We have no ties to any of these other areas other than the fact we are in Pinal county. It makes literally no sense to include us with these far flung communities. This is a blatant attempt at gerrymandering in its most obvious form. The primary reason this is being done is that Nancy Young Wright lost her bid for election and the swing votes came from SaddleBrooke. Which, by the way, has the largest GOP club west of the Mississippi and probably the nation.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak.
Edward W. Kennedy
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Categories: Arizona, Opinion  |    
	   Tags: redistricting  |        No Comments »


Protecting Pinal County’s Property Tax Payers
   Posted by  Richard Brinkley  on    July 31, 2011    
	    

Over the years, covering multiple Boards of Supervisors and County Managers, Pinal County entered into numerous agreements waiving impact fees. These are fees used to cover the cost of expanding the water supply and other necessary services as required by Arizona law. The waiving of impact fees literally means property taxpayers must make up the loss of revenue to the County.
 In October 2006, the Pinal County Board of Supervisors passed and adopted Ordinance No. 101806-DF, which established a development fee schedule for Pinal County. The purpose of the ordinance is to require new developments to pay for their proportionate share of capital costs associated with providing public safety, streets, and parks facilities.
In November 2000, Pinal County and Johnson Ranch/Centex Homes amended a November 1997 agreement waiving development impact fees for ten years with an option to renew for an additional ten years. The 1997 agreement expired in November 2007. When Johnson Ranch/Centex Homes requested another ten year waiver of development impact fees, the Board of Supervisors denied the request.
One of the primary reasons the Board of Supervisors denied the extension was based on a vastly different set of facts facing the Board of Supervisors in 2007 versus the Board of Supervisors in 1997. In 1997, the population of San Tan Valley was estimated at 2000 residents. In 2007, the population was estimated at 40,000 residents. Today, the population is over 80,000 residents, a forty fold increase.
Growth of this magnitude places a draconian strain on County resources, e.g., the Sheriff’s Department, Public Works, and Public Health, to mention a few. If Pinal County viewed County government capitulated to developer demands to waive impact development fees, the lost revenue would be made up in property taxes during a recessionary period.
Johnson Ranch/Centex Homes developed 4,880 lots with 808 lots remaining to be developed at the time. The build out of 4,880 lots outstripped the infrastructure agreed to in the original development agreement. The exponential population growth in Pinal County was not foreseen in 1997, lending credibility to the idea that the Arizona legislature should redefine a phased development from ten to five years,
As a result of the County’s denial of extension of waiver of impact development fees, Johnson Ranch/Centex homes decided to litigate the matter. At approximately the same time, an Arizona State Representative, on behalf of an anonymous developer, attempted to sponsor a bill (HB 2578) freezing all development impact fees. Members of the Pinal County Citizens for Excellence in Government, a non-partisan organization, managed to convince the Representative that his bill was not friendly to property tax payers. The bill was withdrawn.
The importance of this litigation is evidenced in the 21 development impact fee agreements in Pinal County. The potential for property tax payers to incur $500 million in new taxes is real. Two developers opted for litigation: Johnson Ranch/Centex Homes and Grosvenor Holdings (Entrada del Oro). Centex Homes prevailed in Superior Court.
The County appealed on the basis of the Arizona Gift Clause, where the State Constitution prohibits the County from giving or loaning its credit in the aid of any individual or corporation by donation, grant, subsidy or others (Article 9, Section7), public policy consideration, changed circumstances unforeseen at the time of the original agreement, and the best interests of the public.
In December 2010, the Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the ruling of the Superior Court finding improper the grant of summary judgment in favor of Centex Homes. The Court of Appeals found ambiguity in the Development Agreement and directed that the matter could not be settled by summary judgment; it had to be heard by the “trier-of-fact.”
Centex Homes filed a Petition for Review with the Arizona Supreme Court. The Petition for Review was denied in May 2011. In June 2011, the Court of Appeals issued a Mandate commanding the Superior Court to conduct such proceedings as are required to comply with the Appellate Court decision. Centex Homes has yet to initiate any proceeding in Superior Court.
Pinal County Management and the Board of Supervisors were right in refusing to extend the development impact fee agreement and it is right in defending its decision in court. The case is not yet closed but every Pinal County property tax payer should stand up and cheer the position Pinal County Government has taken in this matter.
Development impact fees are assessed subject to the doctrine that new growth should pay for its own costs; property tax payers should not subsidize homebuilders and new residents.


 Categories: Pinal County  |    
	   Tags: Development impact fees  |        No Comments »


Obama Shows His Anti-Business Proclivity
   Posted by  Ted Kennedy  on    July 28, 2011    
	    

 
While the focus of the nation is riveted on the current financial crisis, Mr. Obama has finally taken a position on something. He is pro-union and anti-business. Now most clear thinking people realized this a long time ago but now there is proof: Boeing vs. the NLRB. For those who have forgotten, the NLRB (National Labor Relations Board) has issued an order to Boeing to cease their plans to open a new aircraft plant in South Carolina.
Why, you ask? Simply because South Carolina is a “right to work” state which means any employee has the choice to join a union or not. Thirty eight other states also have these laws and the unions hate them- for obvious reasons.
The Boeing situation is unique in that this is a brand new plant and not a transfer of work from somewhere else to avoid the problems associated with unionism. So the union that has the most Boeing workers in Washington (state of) has appealed to the NLRB to stop Boeing. And, since the NLRB are all Obama appointees, they have issued the cease and desist order. It doesn’t matter that the plant is already built and getting ready to hire hundreds, if not thousands of workers, the unions must prevail and these scurrilous dogs made to join- back in Washington.
Back in June, the anointed one said “as a general proposition companies need to have the freedom to relocate.” But Obama also said that the NLRB is an “independent” agency and the Boeing issue was being decided by a judge. Say what? Is the mellifluous one talking out of both sides of his mouth? Of course he is.
But Tuesday of this week (July 26th), in between his ranting at the GOP and Dubya for creating the debt crisis, the white house issued a formal policy statement against a bill sponsored by South Carolina Rep.Tim Scott that would reduce the power of the NLRB and prohibit it from “ordering any employer to relocate, shut down, or transfer employment under any circumstance.” In simplistic terms Mr. Obama intends to guard the NLRB for his union buddies. One can only infer that he would veto this bill if  it comes to his seldom used desk.
So there you have it friends. If it’s a union shop, it can do whatever it wants as long as the union and the NLRB agree. It matters not a wit what the corporation wants. This brand of socialism is getting closer to communism with each passing day.


 Categories: Opinion  |    
	   Tags: NLRB, Obama Anti Business, Obama pro union  |        No Comments »


Me, Me, Me
   Posted by  Richard Brinkley  on    July 26, 2011    
	    

President Obama’s prime time speech to the nation was not about the debt ceiling; it was all about Obama. Why? Obama’s ego cannot stand being properly marginalized by Speaker John Boehner.
 For the first time in my lifetime, a President of the United States used a primetime telecast to attack his opponent. This is the antics of a Hugo Chavez, an Adolf Hitler, a Fidel Castro, or a Saddam Hussein, all of whom attacked and demonized anyone who opposed them. President Obama has demonstrated himself to be the moral equivalent of these immoral third world dictators.
 Then, Obama attempted to blame George Bush (again? . . . please!) because “surpluses were spent on tax cuts.” Tax cuts are a savings to the tax payers. Savings, by definition do not have to be paid for. Obama once again dips into his “Alice in Wonderland” lexicon of confusion where tax spending is called “investment,” where decision-making is a “false choice,” and where “this isn’t about me” really is about him.
 Once again Obama promoted his pet program of increased taxes. Let’s tax the rich only a little bit more. They are well off, they can afford it. The problem with Obama’s lexicon is “the rich” start at $250,000 incomes. These are not millionaires or billionaires. These are middle class people that Obama attacks.
 The top 50% of taxpayers pay 97% of all taxes. Is it Obama’s aim to have the top 50% to pay 100% of all taxes, so Obama supporters can live on the dole? The top one percent of tax payers pays 39% of all taxes. How much more does Obama want? We are overdue in demanding that Obama’s minions start paying their fair share of taxes before we raise anyone else’s taxes.
 Obama threatens the American people with default should he not get his way. He threatens seniors with no Medicare or Social Security should he not get his way.
 The problem with Obama’s threats: default is a choice; not sending seniors checks is a choice. It is Obama’s choice to default. It is Obama’s choice to destroy America’s credit rating. It is all Obama’s choice.


 Categories: Big Government, Democrat, Failed policies, Obama, Unethical behavior  |    
	   Tags: ego, spending, Taxes  |        No Comments »


Congressional Culture of Corruption 31 – The “But For Rule”
   Posted by  Richard Brinkley  on    July 20, 2011    
	    

The so-called bi-partisan “gang of six” proposal is a backroom agreement between six ethically challenged politicians. It does nothing but raise the debt ceiling. How so?
 Part of the draft proposal calls for “enacting a comprehensive deficit reduction plan that includes discretionary and entitlement savings as well as fundamental tax reform.” It requires various committees to report legislation within six months that would deliver real deficit savings in entitlement programs over ten years.
 For example, the Finance Committee would (not “shall”) permanently reform or replace the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate formula ($298 billion) and fully offset the cost with health savings, would (not “shall”) find an additional $202/$85 billion in health savings,  and would (not “shall”) maintain the essential health care services that the poor and elderly rely upon. Here’s the rub: the “but for rule.”
 But for the absence of consequences for failure, there are no incentives to succeed. What happens when the Finance Committee fails to achieve its objectives? Absolutely nothing. The so-called “gang of six” kicked the proverbial can down the road. Obama receives his debt ceiling increases. And the American people are screwed one more time.
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Armed Services Committee to find $80 billion. What happens when it fails to find $80 billion? What are the consequences?
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Health, Education, labor and Pensions Committees to find $70 billion. What happens when these committees fail to find $70 billion? What are the consequences?
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committees to find $65 billion. What happens when these committees fail to find $65 billion? What are the consequences?
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Agriculture Committee to find $11 billion. What happens when it fails to find $11 billion? What are the consequences?
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Commerce Committee to find $11 billion. What happens when it fails to find $11 billion? What are the consequences?
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Energy Committee to find at least $6 billion. What happens when it fails to find $6 billion plus? What are the consequences?
 The “gang of six” proposal calls for the Judiciary Committee to find an unspecified amount through medical malpractice reform. What happens when this committee fails? What are the consequences?
 The entire so-called “gang of six” proposal is replete with abdications of responsibility by these Senators. It is nothing but the old “shell game” being played in the Senate.
 If there are no consequences for failure, there are no incentives for success. At the very least, failure to achieve the objectives listed should result in committee chairmen and committee members being expelled from the Senate.


 Categories: Big Government, Ethics, Failed policies, Tax and Spend  |    
	   Tags: accountability, Ethics  |        No Comments »


« Older Entries



Position PapersExecutive Summary: Reversing America’s Energy Death Spiral
Reversing America’s Energy Death Spriral
Health Care Letter
Health Care
  Recent Posts from SBRC Members 
Civility- Obama Style
Arizona kids worse than most in poverty, health, and foreclosure
Arizona IRC ED Denies Budget Recommendation
So How Does the Oracle School District Really Feel About SaddleBrooke?
More Model Leadership from Pinal Co. BOS Chairman Pete Rios?

 Gold Canyon Top StoriesPrison magazine to sue Sheriff’s Office, PCSO admits policy errorBanner now performing even more surgeries with robotsSuperstition Mountain Elementary receives new computersDesert Vista Elementary Honors Victims of 9/11Local residents have several ways to remember Sept. 11 this weekendRegister to Vote! Click HERE to get started.
 Goldwater InstituteClean Elections Commission taps taxpayer dollars to save itselfCredit rating lessons from OzAre we talking about consolidation, again?Goldwater Daily Email, Weekly Update take summer vacationPutting unemployment insurance to workArizona State Bar protects checks and balancesK-12 Business School Heritage FoundationTexas Coal Company Announces 500 Layoffs, Sues to Block EPA RegulationSimple Steps for Super Committee TransparencyPresidents Obama and Bush Invoke America’s Religious Heritage at Ground Zero 9/11 MemorialTotal’s Caspian Gas DiscoveryA Nightmare That Could Be Worse than 9/11Confronting Terror: A Special Book Event on Remembering 9/11Morning Bell: Preserve the Constitution, Now More Than Ever

       
      ©2009 American Issues Blog   
     
     
Celestial Aura Theme by dkszone.net 
Hits since 01/04/2010: 112929 
