 The Cholla Jumps

The Cholla Jumps
by James Kelley 


Garfield-Traub throws old Rio Nuevo Board, Tucson City Council under the bus
with one comment

Developer wants what they say is owed them for Convention Center work.
Back on August 4, I printed a press release from Jodi Bain, Chairman of the Rio Nuevo Multi-Purpose District, a shared state revenue tax increment finance district ( TIF), that stated Garfield Traub, the original developer of all the failed Rio Nuevo projects, had been overpaid $1.8 million dollars according to a forensic audit.
Rio Nuevo Board member Jonathan Paton was quoted by KVOA channel 4 as saying “”They say that we owe them and they refuse to produce the documentation that neutral auditors are asking for, that looks really bad.”
Rio Nuevo has declined any further payment until the audit is complete. According to Paton, auditors lack critical documents and statements regarding the project.
“They have no proof that the approval ever took place and they can’t back up that the work was actually ever done.”
Steve Moffett, President of the Hospitality Division for Garfield Traub Development said, “We have tried desperately to answer those questions told them we would fly back out to Tucson, sit with them, the district, and the city and they have not asked us to do that.” Moffett also said, “In terms of whether we’ve been overpaid, no, not a penny.”
The questions that still beg answers are; Where is the damn money and what happened to $230 million? Are the documents that Garfield Traub is citing in their press releases the proof or are there documents that have not been released by Traub to the auditors that would exonerate them?
Jonathan Paton answers a couple of questions telling me ” When we looked at the minutes of the City Council meetings and the District Board meetings we can not find a definitive answer that approved the revised design budget.”  He went on to say, “Many of the documents the auditors have asked for, Traub says are in a warehouse in Henderson Nevada. That is probably in violation of contract as all the paperwork, work inspections, punch lists that prove actual work was done should have been kept on site. Who knows if $17 million dollars worth of work was done. Traub certainly hasn’t produced proof that it was.”
” If you wanted to get paid for a job you did, would you tell the person writing the check the paperwork proving I did the job according to contract is at my Mom’s house, sorry. Of course not you would produce it right away to get paid. Garfield Traub needs to cooperate with the auditors.”
Mr Paton went on to say that there are going to be three phases that the Rio Nuevo District must endure, revelation and examination of wrong doing, legislative action to strengthen the boards ability to hold the city acccountable, and building the infrastrucutre necessary to create a revenue producing district.
It appears Garfield- Traub is wanting to put all the blame back on the original Rio Nuevo Board and ultimatelty City and Council for the boneheaded contracts they negotiated and approved.
Garfield-Traub may have legitimate complaints, but they are still up to their neck in this absolute failure. I suspect a great deal of heat may be coming their way in the form of law enforcement.
Out of fairness I submit their press release. 
Tucson, Arizona — Garfield Traub, a leading national developer of public/private partnerships and public developments, has been falsely accused recently by the Rio Nuevo Multipurpose Facilities District of over-billing for its work on the Tucson Convention Center Expansion and Headquarters Hotel development.  The company has provided evidence to the District and the City of Tucson that its team has not yet been paid the full amount of the District-approved work for the project.
“Garfield Traub and our entire team did our job well, honored the terms of our contracts, and billed properly for work performed in an open and transparent process designed to provide the finest convention center and hotel complex to help the City of Tucson with its downtown redevelopment goals,” said Steve Moffett, President of the Hospitality Division of Garfield Traub. 
Recently, the Tucson media reported that Garfield Traub has been overpaid by a sum of approximately $1,800,000.  That sum appears to be the difference between the project’s original design budget of $15,762,578 and $17,574,885, the sum paid to date to Garfield Traub and its team, which includes Turner/Sundt, the general contractor, architects, engineers, and other subcontractors. However, the District, its lawyers, and its accountants have apparently decided to ignore the District-approved revised design budget for the project in order to support their false claim of a $1,800,000 overpayment.
What the media and the public have not been told is that the revised budget under the project’s Master Development Agreement $17,438,809 was unanimously approved by the District Board on September 15, 2009.  An additional cost of $279,000 was also approved by the District to correct an unforeseen site condition at the main entrance that was not the development team’s responsibility.  Furthermore, no one told the public that the reported payment to Garfield Traub included $400,000 for the work performed by the Garfield Traub team under a separate Pre-Development Agreement with the District.
When the correct budget and the approved work completed by the development team are taken into consideration, the allegation that the Garfield Traub team has been overpaid by a sum of $1,800,000 is shown to be false, and the truth is revealed that the team has been underpaid by more than $480,000 for work performed under the Master Development Agreement.
“We are very disappointed by the District’s actions and accusations.  The false accusations about over-billing are clearly defamatory and damaging to our team.  We hope this is not a strategy by the District to avoid meeting its obligations under the development agreement,” said Mr. Moffett.  “The final pay applications for the design and construction of the project and the new convention center entrance have been outstanding and owed by the District to Garfield Traub and its team since July 2010. Garfield Traub and our design and construction team stand behind our work and remain steadfast in our commitment to the citizens of Tucson.”
About Garfield Traub Development, LLC
Garfield Traub is a national development services provider focusing exclusively on public and public/private developments. The company uses innovative and cost-effective financing solutions tailored to the requirements of public sector clients. Garfield Traub employs a “turnkey” delivery method that minimizes client risk and administrative burden, maximizes transparency and accountability, and enables “fast track” delivery of high quality facilities months or even years ahead of when otherwise thought possible. Garfield Traub and its executives have developed more than 30 million square feet of all property types nationally and abroad, and have financed more than $11 billion in debt and equity. The experience of Garfield Traub’s management team includes the development, financing and/or asset management of more than 40 hotels comprising more than 16,000 guestrooms, 1.3 million square feet of function space, and $2.5 billion of debt and equity under both private, public/private and public nonprofit ownership structures. For more information, supporting documents (including meeting minutes and budget approval letter, or interviews please e-mail Steve Moffett at smoffett@garfieldtraub.com or visit our website at http://www.garfieldtraub.com/.
Rate this:

Share this:TwitterFacebookStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail


Written by thechollajumps 
September 6, 2011 at 2:46 pm


Posted in crime, Health, Life, Politics, Tucson
Tagged with Jonathan Paton, Rio Nuevo, Tucson AZ, Garfield Traub, Rio Nuevo TIF, Jodi Bain, Steve Moffett, TIF, KVOA 4, Tucson Convention Center, Turner/Sundt



Pima Republicans raffle a gun but Democrats count the money
with 52 comments

This last week, a firestorm hit Pima County again because of a Glock pistol. No shots were fired, no one died, but less than a year after the killing of six people, including a nine year old girl, and the wounding of a Congresswoman, our community had the scab of our tragedy ripped open with a thoughtless, insensitive and politically stupid act.
The Pima GOP had been doing so well in it’s public comments about the tragedy,particularly after Pima County Sheriff Clarence Dupnik blamed political rhetoric and radio talk show hosts for “inciting” a mentally incompetent gunmen. Our politicians and our committemen all communicated their sorrow for the loss of life and ther hopes and prayers for a full recovery of the wounded, including Gabrielle Giffords.
The messaging fom the party was consistent. Should she recover and choose to run again, our candidates and our party would continue to meet in the forums of debate on the issues of our community. The Republicans would have their perspective and the Democrats theirs. The last election was extremely close and was an example of  just how politically polarized our county is with regards to who has the better plan to pull us out of the economic malaise that has paralyzed our community. Our unemployment rate is higher than our neighbors to the north. We have more people in need of government assitance than ever before. Our neighborhoods are emptying out leaving boarded up foreclosed homes. Our businesses are closing and  littering our revenue generating corridors of commerce with abandoned offices. Our wealth expressed in our property values has taken huge hits and our children are leaving the community in search of jobs elsewhere. The braindrain of University of Arizona graduates leaving is destroying our viability as a community. Our resorts and Hotels are below 80% occupancy most days and are filing for bankruptcy.
Our city council is corrupt and can not account for $230 million in state shared revenue from the Rio Nuevo Tax Increment Finance District. Our basic services of Fire and Police are rapidly depleting as retiring officers are not being replaced. Our roads need paving, our parks are in disrepair and becoming havens of drug dealers again. Weekly, our citizens are being killed on our streets, usually over drugs. Our mental health care providers kick patients to the curb while the directors make almost half a million dollars a year. These problems and issues are all creations of the liberal socialist stranglehold that our local Democratic party legislators, County Supervisors and City Councilmembers have caused.
But what does the one party that has the answers and the candidates to solve the problems do? It holds a gun raffle against the advice of it’s own members of the executive committee because the Pima GOP is so broke it has less than one month worth of operating revenue left in the kitty and the Executive Director wanted to make sure his pay check would cash next week.
Why is the Pima GOP broke? Well, it had a former chairman who spent money on projects before he identified and recieved a revenue stream from it’s regular donors as well as failing to bring in new donors. The interim chair Mike Shaw, sat in place and saw no impetus on him to raise money since a September 8 election would have a new chairman. It’s their problem not his. In desperation, Greg Harris,the executive director went against the advice of myself and others who had previously said shortly after the Jan 8th shooting, and as late as last week, ”No more gun raffles”.
When confronted with their folly on Thursday morning, instead of saying ” You are right this is wrong, we will remove the notice and cancel the raffle. We apologize for our thoughtlessness.” They doubled down and went all in, contacting Jon Justice from 104.1 FM and said get us out of this mess help us message it in such a way that we make everyone’s thoughts and feelings about Jan 8th look stupid and silly and completely ignore our communities grief. So the snarky sarcastic and very caustic Justice did just that, making fun of every caller that agreed with me that this was a stupid move. He berated callers and everyone in Tucson for their “feelings”.  Get over it, stop being a victim, etc… that is until State Senator Frank Antenori came on the air and said the raffle was imprudent and bad messaging for the party. Then Justice spun around jumped and jived clapped his hands in a rythmic manner and moved on… nothing to see here. Such courage.
God forbid I should ever agree with a Democrat about anything or shake their hand or be pleasant and polite to anyone in the Democratic Party. Jeff Rogers, Pima County Democratic Party Chairman, and I rarely agree on anything. Congressman Raul Grijalva is my mortal political enemy, but when we meet in public, I shake his hand and greet him with the respect his office confers. I do the same with Jeff Rogers. I spent a whole day with some Democrat State Legislators on Wednesday, including Dan Patterson whom I have raked over the coals in this column more than a few times. We toured Primavera Foundation’s facilites and were briefed on their activities. I then spent the rest of the day at the State Prison on Wilmot Road with them. Amazingly we got along just fine and were pleasant with each other.
These simple acts of human decency and political politeness have somehow given credence to numerous conspiracy theories. The drift of the conversations are; that I conspired with the Democrats to create this controversy or I conspired with the GOP to create this controversy all for political name recognition and fundraising. So either I was raising funds for the GOP or I am somehow being paid off by the Democrats. I have seen both discussed by the same people. I have been called a coward that wont stand up for the second ammendment. Odd, PCT 388, a precinct in my district, is hosting a speaker on the second ammendment this coming Tuesday, it’s been scheduled long before this bruhaha. I have been called a Judas and accused of taking the thirty pieces of silver from the Democrats.
I have never, ever been paid for any of my columns by any politician or political party. Ever. I am a volunteer on the executive committee ,as is every other member. I have never been paid by any candidate for office in Pima County, ever. My consulting and advice, writing pro or con, making calls, walking precincts, even reporting for radio or any show on the radio has all been uncompensated. Not every member of the Ex-Comm or our Executive Director, who is paid by the committee but does “side jobs” , can say the same.
All of that is going to change soon. I intend to monetize this little blog, I intend to monetize my radio appearances and I intend to monetize my consulting. Could it be that somehow this might compete with people who are presently doing all of that as well already? Could it be that perhaps there are some people intimately involved in our party here in Pima County that may find that threatening? So trash me quick before it happens. Yes, Democrats and socialists are not the only ones that like their fiefdoms, even so called solid freemarket Republicans like monopolies.
In the end, Greg Harris and Mike Shaw with the help of Jon Justice pimping the raffles for two hours on the air raffled not one but two guns. So the party now has enough money to pay the Executive Director for the month and keep the lights on for September. Meanwhile every single Democratic city candidate has outraised all of the Republican candidates. The Democratic party has four different political action committees raising money for direct indirect expenditures on candidates. The GOP? Zip. Nada. Nothing. Instead we gave them an issue to talk about at every one of their fundraisers. Jeff Rogers didn’t plant the story with The Arizona Daily Star, they didn’t plant the story with Keith Olberman or The Associated Press. Mike Shaw and Greg Harris wrote the story for them in E-tracks, the Pima GOP weekly newsletter.
Let’s hope the Sabino High School Republican Club can steer the upcoming city election back to the real issues on the September 14th candidate forum they are sponsoring with all political parties. Amanda Oien, the high school age president of the club has already showed more intelligence, maturity, and political savvy than present adult leaders in the party.
Jon Justice responds:
“For the the record, I contacted the GOP, they didn’t reach out to me. I was hoping to broadcast at GOP HQ to help with the raffle and the GOP decided that they didn’t want to push things that far. Thus we had Mike on the show for one break to help support the raffle. They never once asked me to do or say anything. They didn’t ask for help or even advice. Mike Shaw had no clue what I was going to ask him either. Basically James just fabricated that whole part of the story out of thin air.”
I respond:
“Well I agree with what you said about Mike Shaw, he had no clue… Apparently neither did you. Your behavior Friday was abominable and disrespectful to the whole of Tucson. It is quite apparent your vision is obscured by blinders, your hearing by the echo chamber of psychophants that surround you, and your behavior, well let’s just say step back a moment and go ask your pastor what he thinks.”
Rate this:

Share this:TwitterFacebookStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail


Written by thechollajumps 
September 3, 2011 at 8:58 pm


Posted in Life, Politics
Tagged with 104.1 The Truth, Congressman Raul Grijalva, Frank Antenori, Glock 23, Greg Harris, Jeff Rogers, Jon Justice, Mike Shaw, Pima County, Pima GOP, Pima GOP E-tracks, Primavera Foundation, Rep Gabrielle Giffords, Sabino High School Republican Club



« Older Entries





Search for:



Happening now
Narco-terrorists and the policy of destabilization http://t.co/I82PhG0 /via @wordpressdotcom 2 days ago
The Cholla Jumps has an opportunity for a Friday noon-1pm show on KJLL 1330 AM. Please contact me for sponsorhship. 3 days ago
can someone teach me how to link my worpress blog to this f/b page? So i don't have to manually put in every w/p post? 3 days ago

Recent Comments Arizona Gun Raffle: … on Pima Republicans raffle a gun …Arizona Gun Raffle: … on Pima Republicans raffle a gun …Garfield-Traub throw… on Garfield-Traub throws old Rio …Veritas Vincit on Pima Republicans raffle a gun …Garfield-Traub throw… on The New Rio Nuevo District Boa…
Recent Posts 
Garfield-Traub throws old Rio Nuevo Board, Tucson City Council under the bus
Pima Republicans raffle a gun but Democrats count the money
Will Southern Arizona ever become self-actualized?
Joe Flores, candidate Ward 1, fights back against Democratic Party shenanigans
The New Rio Nuevo District Board shuts down tainted contract with Garfield Traub

Pages 
About The Cholla Jumps
Posting Policy of The Cholla Jumps
What I believe.

Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (2)
 August 2011  (3)
 July 2011  (2)
 June 2011  (15)
 May 2011  (5)
 April 2011  (13)
 March 2011  (9)
 February 2011  (10)
 January 2011  (3)
 December 2010  (7)
 November 2010  (3)
 October 2010  (17)
 September 2010  (22)
 August 2010  (30)
 July 2010  (38)
 June 2010  (50)
 May 2010  (48)
 April 2010  (45)




Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: The Journalist v1.9 by Lucian E. Marin. Fonts on this blog.

















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






