Top 10 tips for seeing the supernova | Info for Students




Info for Students


Info for Students




 




 





 Recent Posts 
Rex Ryan taking Jets' opener seriously for many reasons
Cam Newton inconsistent while McCoy, Bush shine in Friday’s preseason action
Low Carb Diet Health Risk – Female First
Dallas defense still not ‘great’
Best sellers from Publishers Weekly (Sept. 4)
Advertising Executive Uses Music To Mark 9/11 Anniversary
Andy Whitfield’s Death: Hollywood Pays Tribute to Former ‘Spartacus’ Star
Remarkable comeback? No, that was Romo being Romo
Taunton Lymphoma Association (From This is The West Country)
Public Policy Institute establishes schedule
49ers 33, Seahawks 17
Mark Sanchez aims to be the man
'Entourage' Series Finale: What the Viewers Are Saying
PHOTO: Rex Ryan Trollgazes While Holding A Flag
Rex Ryan Probably Didn’t Mean To Encourage Fan Violence, But That’s Not The Point

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011

Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Tagsamp
barack obama
cnn
crowd
daily mail
dallas cowboys
direction south
earth
e mail
espn
facebook
flickr
followers
franchise
game
games
getty images
google
hollywood
investors
ipad
iphone
job
lady gaga
launch
match
mdash
money
nasdaq
nbsp
nnamdi asomugha
no doubt
nyse
parents
photos
quot
relationships
release source
reuters
rsquo
shia labeouf
target
twitter
weather
wind direction
 



 

Top 10 tips for seeing the supernova




 
UPDATE Sunday, September 4, 2011. Despite the video at the bottom of this post, in which an astronomer says the supernova can be seen in “decent-sized” binoculars, experts are now saying the supernova will be around 10th magnitude in brightness. That is very faint. You will need a very large pair of binoculars (AstroBob says to try 80mm binoculars) – mounted on a tripod – to see a 10th magnitude object. You could also use nearly any small telescope. With the moon waxing in the evening sky, casting more and more of its light into the sky and drowning fainter stars, tonight might be your last good chance to see this, assuming you have enough optical aid. (September 3, 2011) On the weekend of September 3-4, 2011 – if you live in the northern hemisphere, and if you have patience and a good pair of binoculars – you’ll have an opportunity to witness what the ancients might have thought was a “new” star – a star that pops into view suddenly where no star was before. We today know it as an exploding star, or supernova. Astronomers believe it might become the brightest Type 1a supernova of the last 30 years. 1. Which way do I look? The supernova – called Supernova 2011fe by astronomers – is located near the familiar Big Dipper pattern in our skies. At this time of year, the Big Dipper can be found in the northwestern sky in the hours after sunset. 2. What time of night? Don’t wait too late at night, or the Big Dipper will have set below your northwestern horizon. 3. How do I recognize the Big Dipper? The Big Dipper consists of seven fairly bright stars in a dipper pattern. Notice that the Dipper has two parts – a bowl and a handle. Visit EarthSky Tonight – daily charts and night sky info4. How do I find the supernova in the Big Dipper? You want to be looking at the last two stars in the handle of the Dipper. These stars are Mizar and Alkaid. Pretend you are drawing an equilateral, or even-sided, triangle on the sky, using Mizar and Alkaid to mark two points of the triangle. The supernova will be located at the third point of your imaginary triangle.5. Can I see the supernova with the eye alone? No. No one knows exactly how bright the supernova will get, but you’ll need binoculars or a small telescope to see it. 6. What will the supernova look like? The supernova will be seen in our sky superimposed on the Pinwheel Galaxy (M101). The supernova resides inside this galaxy. That’s why the chart above shows the site of the supernova as fuzzy. The galaxy is fuzzy. The supernova will look just like a star, like a pinpoint of light. The sky experts at Skyandtelescope.com say you’ll probably use the supernova to find the galaxy – not the galaxy to find the supernova. If your sky isn’t dark enough, both supernova and galaxy will be tough to spot.UPDATE 7. Can I see the supernova with binoculars? The supernova will probably be no brighter than 10th magnitude. The video below says you will need a “decent-sized” pair of binoculars, but, in fact, you probably will need a strong pair of binoculars, mounted on a tripod to keep them from shaking as you aim them toward the supernova. How large? A lot depends on your sky conditions. Use the largest ones you have, say, 80mm or larger.8. Can I use my telescope to see the supernova? Yes. Skyandtelescope.com says the supernova should be within the limits for a 4-inch or larger ‘scope. 9. Will I see the Pinwheel Galaxy behind the supernova? If you are looking in a very dark sky, you might see a wispy patch behind the supernova. That’s the galaxy! You’ll need a small telescope to see the galaxy well.10. Can I see the supernova from my backyard? Maybe. A tip from veteran skywatchers: pack up a picnic supper, grab the family and head out to the country to see the supernova. State parks are a great place to set up. You’ll have a much better chance of seeing it, and you’ll enjoy the view so much more.Astronomers say the supernova will remain visible with binoculars in our sky for about a week to 10 days – say, the first 10 days of September. Are they right? Only time will tell.Scientists at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab) and the University of California, Berkeley caught this supernova just hours after its explosion, a rare feat made possible with an automatic survey telescope and state-of-the-art computational tools. The brightness of this Type 1a supernova has been steadily increasing since the telescope first caught sight of it on August 24, 2011. Berkeley Lab’s Peter Nugent explains more in the video below.This supernova is a mere 21 million light-years away from Earth, a relatively small distance by astronomical standards. It actually exploded 21 million years ago. The light from the explosion took 21 million years to reach Earth.One last thing – that old bugaboo – the moon. The moon is waxing now, getting brighter, casting more light in the sky and obscuring fainter stars. How long will you be able to see the supernova in the light of the moon? It depends on how bright it gets. Again, no one really knows for sure how bright the supernova will become – although astronomers have a pretty good idea, based on the behavior of other objects of this type. Best to look for it as soon as possible, though, before the moon gets too bright. So … check it out! And have fun. Let us know if you see it.A powerful supernova explodes relatively near to EarthMore info about seeing the supernova from Skyandtelescope.comMore info about seeing the supernova from AstroBob













            © 2011 
                Info for Students            







