Firefighters gain ground on largest Texas wildfire ~ TECH NEWS







skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar







CONTACT US
GOOGLE ADSENSE
BACKLINK BUILDER
SEO TOOL FREE
IPHONE DOWNLOADS



















































Home
NEWS

Asian
World


TECHNOLOGY

Tech World
Tech tips
Products


DOWNLOADS

Utilities

Iphone


Games
Music


Online Marketing

Search Engine Optimization
Make Money Online


BLOGS

Blog tips
Templates
Tools

BloggerAdsCodeConverter




SPORTS
FUNNY
VIDEOS
OUR FRIENDS

Technology
BlogTipsWorld
IphoneHacks
eBlogTemplates























Pages













































Notice

We’ve got the hits that put your website on the top of charts! Revisitors.com can bring you thousands of unique, targeted visitors daily - 5,000, 10,000 and more! Success was never so simple!











RANDOM POST
















RECENT POST

















ADVERTISING



make money


























RECENT COMMENTS

































Free counters
















Thursday, September 8, 2011




Firefighters gain ground on largest Texas wildfire






3:41 AM

No comments



Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the damage toll rose to 800 homes. An elite search team was sent out to find any victims as the blaze blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over the capital, Austin, about 25 miles to the east. The air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.  Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economyAs firefighters walk the path of the blaze, the flames are finally gone in some places. But the devastating effects of the fire are scattered across Texas, where thousands hope for an end to the violent blaze. NBC’s Jay Gray reports. The 34,000-acre Bastrop County Complex fire, which has forced the evacuation of about 5,000 people in the rural community, was about 30 percent contained Wednesday thanks to the easing of winds from Tropical Storm Lee, which fanned flames over the weekend. "Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," said April Saginor, public information officer for the Texas Forest Service. The fire is one of nearly 200 that broke out in the past week and killed four across Texas, where the countryside is perilously dry because of one of the most severe Texas droughts on record. Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area, using dogs trained to sniff out bodies. Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them." Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes. The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. Video: Gov. Rick Perry: Wildfires have been ‘devastating’ (on this page) Resident William Clements learned Tuesday that his home in Bastrop was lost. "It was kind of a shock when we came up and saw that it was gone," he said. "But we are recovering from the shock, and landing on our feet." A list of 243 homes confirmed destroyed was posted for Bastrop residents to check at the county's shelters and in a command center, but it only accounted for a fraction of the houses officials say have been burned. Resident Geary Garton, his arms covered with bandages and his nose and ears blistered, was cheerily hopeful as he approached the list looking for his house. Garton said he'd left his home on foot to find a hose on Sunday night when the fires were coming. When he turned back to douse his home with water, fire was blocking him. "It didn't look all that bad at first, but it came up quick," he said, adding that he had sprinted back through blinding smoke to reach his two dogs, the heat blistering his arms as he ran. His dogs, Berkley and Clancy, were hiding under the porch, which was untouched by flames. But Garton was too weak to pick them up and had to leave them behind. He expressed hope that they had escaped and would turn up at a shelter. Then he turned his attention to the list, reading the street names. When he got to K C Drive he stopped talking. He whipped off his glasses, turned on his heel, and wiped his eye as he strode away into the parking lot. He didn't answer questions about whether his home had survived. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, visiting the command center as Gov. Rick Perry was in California preparing for his first Republican presidential debate, said he would ask the federal government to declare the state a disaster area. Slideshow: Wildfires scorch Texas (on this page) More than 3.6 million acres in Texas have been scorched by wildfires since November, fed by a drought that has caused more than $5 billion in damage to the state's agricultural industry and that shows no sign of easing. About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped. The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report. From msnbc.msn.


Related Posts : NEWS,
WORLD





 Posted in:  NEWS,WORLD


Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




















Newer Post


Older Post

Home





0
Comments:
        






Post a Comment
Please leave a comment if you want show your mind with us. Thank you!
























































RSS Subscription!


Follow me!
























FOLLOW BY EMAIL

























































  Amazon.com Widgets















make money












FOCUS









9/11 memories and emotions have not faded
 Ten years ago, Postmedia News reporter Douglas Quan was living in New York City when two hijacked airliners crashed into the World Trade en...










10 Free Web Icon and Button Sets for Web Designers
From TechFlaps.Com   Presenting  before you in this article is another set of web icons and  buttons for  web designers and bloggers, which ...










Photos: 20 iconic images from 9/11
 For memories of that day, we look at the top 20 iconic images from the September 11th terrorist attacks.   Rescue workers carry fatally inj...










September, 11: The day we will never forget ...
There are so many things went through in our lives, but there are some events that we can not forget ..   What do you think about that day ?...










Newbie: Some Blogs I think you should read
I just started my blog in June, 2011. Later I found and read many blogs, especially the blogs which are similiar mine. So I recognized that ...





New iPhone 5 Concept: Thinner, Larger 4-Inch Edge To Edge Screen, Improved Cameras & More
By IphoneHacks We’ve already seen couple of interesting  iPhone 5  concepts, the first one seemed to be  inspired by iPhone 4 and iPad 2 , w...










TECH NEWS: How to SEO your site - Lesson 1
Today I decide to share for you the 12-lesson-package of Brad Callen, a Professional SEO : " How to SEO your site ". I am sure that these le...










G.O.C HD Theme for Iphone 4
G.O.C HD Theme  The luxury theme for older version, now for IP 4.   Download Version 1.4     How to Install:  1. Your Iphone must was Jailbr...










21 Essential SEO Tips & Techniques
Businesses are growing more aware of the need to understand and implement at least the basics of search engine optimization (SEO).  But if y...










Elite Pro HD Theme for Iphone 4
A Pro Theme for Iphone 4. Download it now!               Download Version 1.6   















DOWNLOAD MP3 MUSIC

Michael Jackson Greatest Hits HIStory Volume I












Born This Way [+Digital Booklet]












Born This Way [+Digital Booklet]












Will You Be There (Theme from "Free Willy") (Album Version)












Will You Be There (Theme from "Free Willy") (Album Version)











FROM OTHERS










John Chow dot Com




How To Pour Bubble Tea, English Style


                      -
                    

Pearl Castle is a Taiwanese restaurant located at Richmond’s Continental 
Plaza. The place is always packed because they offer great-tasting food at 
extreme...


6 hours ago












Daily Blog Tips




DMOZ Questions From An Editor’s Perspective


                      -
                    

DMOZ has long been considered a top web directory and is a highly sought 
after backlink. However, not a lot is known about what goes on behind the 
scenes, ...


7 hours ago












Techncom ~ AdSense, SEO, Blogging Tips | SEO for Blog | SEO ebook









How To Get Great Content Ideas For Your Blog


                      -
                    

As bloggers the content we put out on our blog is a very integral part of 
our success. Building a successful blog is not just about pumping out just 
any *c...


1 day ago












Blog Make Money | Affiliate Marketing Blog | Blogging Make Money Online









5 Things You Should Know About Qualities of a Successful Blogger


                      -
                    

There are thousands of newbie bloggers who want to succeed in blogging, but 
many of them don't know how to do that. I’m sure not all of them will become 
a ...


2 days ago

































Feedjit Live Blog Stats













 


Copyright © 2011 TECH NEWS | Powered by Blogger | Contact email: zennguyen@live.com | Tel: (849) 321 96959






Design by Free WordPress Themes | Bloggerized by Lasantha - Premium Blogger Themes | cheap international calls





















