 June 2008 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Inkstar Punctuates Ink Recycling
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 30 under Eco-friendly, Recycling
Ink use for printers in graphics or simple printers today have had their share of the recycling era and Heidelberg, the world leader in presses and digital technology is leading by example. Through its Saphira range of consumables, ink materials made from recycled materials is a good move to help in reducing waste. As we [...]


Comments Off



Fishing in Girls with Green Vehicles in the Market
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 24 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly Vehicles
It is not a pretty belief but chicks do dig studs with cars. Apparently if you previously owned a Porsche or a convertible, chances are that dream girl you always wanted to take out will be more than happy to oblige. But as we turn to the new millennium of green proportions, do not be [...]


1 Comment



Eco-friendly DIY Ideas for Home
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 21 under Eco-friendly
As far as living eco-friendly, you have to think eco-friendly. Today, the products we use will be the telling factor on how green you can be. While some would not care, it would be best to check out the composition of the products you are using. Cleaning products, paint and energy compliance features are a [...]


1 Comment



Muji Cardboard Speakers
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 20 under Eco-friendly, Recycling
For all the people who are looking at the pricey speakers to go with their usual iPods or MP3 players, check out this green alternative towards enjoying music today. Remember, all you need are speakers and by using cardboard in lieu of the usual plastic or wood, two of the resources that are pretty much [...]


Comments Off



Eco-Friendly Mobile Phone Recharging Pod
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 19 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly
To some, running on low battery or having no charge at all can be a burden. While they may have their reliable cellphone chargers along, it still remains that they have to find somewhere to plug it in.


Comments Off



Incipio Zune 80 Eco-friendly iPod Cases
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 18 under Eco Gadgets, Eco-friendly
For most gadget freaks who are forever trying to look for ideal cases for their iPods, here is a video review on the Incipio Zune 80. Check it out, it may be the long lost iPod case that you are looking for that has eco-friendly standards tagged on to it as well. See which among [...]


Comments Off



BicyTaxi: A New way of Getting Places the Green Way
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 16 under Alternative Energy, Eco-friendly, Transportation
Talk about public transportation, people need to travel a lot and normally, the average taxi cab would be their best option. There will always be the usual buses and subways but what if your destination is not that far?


Comments Off



Applying the Green to our Home Interiors
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 15 under Eco-friendly
As far as trying to sustain a better place for living, you have to wonder what green tips you can get from the eco-friendly experts to apply. There are actually a lot on the web. There are websites such as Treehugger and the Sundance Channel on Youtube that can spark up those ideas. Once you [...]


Comments Off



Hyundai Unveils Eco-friendly Buses in Seoul
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 14 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Eco-friendly Vehicles
We all know the value of transportation that makes our lives easier but the continued gas price increases as well as pollution from the standard public transportation buses are not helping the environment today. To help address these two issues, Hyundai Motors has signed a pact that will have them produce around 7,748 environmental friendly [...]


Comments Off



Solar-Powered Digital Tire Gauge
POSTED BY Rokai on Jun 12 under Solar Power
The tire pressure levels are important components of a car with regards to how well it runs on the road. With gas prices going crazy, the proper balance of tire pressure contribute to the fuel consumption of a car as well as maintenance issues like the shock absorbers and other under chassis parts like bushings [...]


1 Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers

 

 Eco-friendly Tips Feed7 oil workers found alive in Gulf of MexicoDeath toll reaches 15,782 from great quake-tsunami in Japan6.0-magnitude quake hits VanuatuBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy











Tag cloud


global warming
tropical storm lee
saving energy
carbon footprint
eco
global warning
Recycling
recycled materials
green
climate change
clothes
money
national hurricane center
prnewswire
barack obama
lifestyle
ecofriendly
Eco-friendly
christmas
shopping
epicenter
atmosphere
organic cotton
pr newswire
environment
earth
hurricane irene
consumers
reuters
mother earth
Categories 
Alternative Energy (115)

Animals (64)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (151)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (83)

Eco Gadgets (86)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1078)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (408)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (26)

Fuel (7)

Garbage and Waste (85)

Global Warning (121)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (70)

Lighting (27)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (67)

Press Releases (30)

Recycling (192)

Solar Power (58)

Transportation (67)

Water (33)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Count per Day224514Total reads:1403Reads today:67454Total visitors:253Visitors today:7255Visitors per month:555Visitors per day:4Visitors currently online:Articles of Interestozone layerdrinking waterwood deckschangee wastePlugins for WordPress




Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




