
	Texas Crews Make Gains Against Wildfire Near Austin  - US - CBN News - Christian News 24-7 - CBN.com







 




		Ad Feedback
	



Christian Broadcasting Network

Home | Prayer Request | Give to CBN | E-mail Updates | About CBN | Employment | Contact/Help








The 700 Club
CBN News
Spiritual Life
Family
Health
Finance
Entertainment
TV & Radio
WorldReach
Kids
ShopCBN



US


Shows


World


US


Inside Israel


Politics


Christian World News


Blogs


Health & Science


Finance


ESPAÑOL







Texas Crews Make Gains Against Wildfire Near Austin 


CBNNews.com


Thursday, September 08, 2011
RSS
Podcasts


















					The latest version of Adobe Flash Player is required to watch this video.
					Please click on the link below to download the latest version. Thanks!
					







Embed:

Link:






		Ad Feedback
	



Fire crews have started to gain control of a wind-stoked wildfire that has raged unchecked across parched central Texas for days, destroying more than 800 homes. 
Nearly 400 firefighters have descended upon the massive blaze in Bastrop County. Although they have made some gains, they haven't been able to put the fire out. 
At least two people have died in the wildfire that has also blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin. 
Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts. 
"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said. 
The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. 
Statewide, the fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. 
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires. 









 | 
+ More
        


Related Stories:
Deadly Wildfires Devour Homes Across Texas
Texas Wildfire Could Soon be Contained









Log in or create an account to post a comment.
	 



Your Message...
Add Comment





CBN IS HERE FOR YOU!
Are you seeking answers in life? Are you hurting? Are you facing a difficult situation?
Find peace with God, discover more about God or send us your prayer request.
Call The 700 Club Prayer Counseling Center at1 (800) 759-0700, 24 hours a day.
A caring friend will be there to pray with you in your time of need.





CBNNews.com

CBN News is a national/international, nonprofit news organization that provides programming by cable, satellite, and the Internet, 24-hours a day.














 Get the Latest Updates from CBN News


            CBN News Updates
              
        



            Christian World News Updates
              
          


            E-mail Address:
            



                Sign Up for the CBNNews Updates








Become a CBN Partner
	  and receive The 700 Club's Life...Beyond the Grave on DVD. 



			Ad Feedback
		



E-mail
RSS
Feedback


Sign up for the CBN News Dispatch and receive CBN News Reports in your inbox each day.Subscribe Now >>


Add CBN News, articles, latest videos and blog feeds to your favorite RSS reader. Subscribe Now >>


E-mail us your news tips, story ideas, questions & comments. Contact Us >>



CBN News Top Stories


9/11 Weekend Filled with Honors, False Alarms


Israel to Reopen Egyptian Embassy after Attack 


Study Warns US Must Improve Cyber Defense 


Afghan Suicide Bomber Wounds Dozens of U.S. Troops


Sept. 11 Marked with Reading of Nearly 3,000 Names 


By God's Grace: Surviving 9/11 from the 81st Floor




Blogs

The Brody File

Perry, Romney in California Cage Match



Beltway Buzz

Pressure Builds for 9/11 Prayer



Jerusalem Dateline

Give Peace a Chance



Stakelbeck on Terror

Fmr. FBI Special Agent Commemorates 9/11 With Powerful New Song



Boots on the Ground

E-Trace - A scandal waiting to happen?



Hurd on the Web

My 9/11: The End of a World



The Global Lane

Machine Gun Preacher



Healthy Living

Food Consumption to Blame



 











Explore

Home
CBN News
The 700 Club
TV Shows
Radio
WorldReach


Spiritual Life
Finance
Entertainment
Family
Health
ShopCBN



Learn More

About CBN
Do You Know Jesus?
Discipleship Courses
Prayer Requests
E-mail Updates
Contact / Help



Get Involved

Partner with CBN
Give to CBN
Planned Giving
Living Tributes
Pledge Express
Join the online CBN Community





 © Copyright 2011 . The Christian Broadcasting Network. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Agreement 





