Business & Financial News, Breaking US & International News | Reuters.com






Âť Print

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to colleagues, clients or customers, use the Reprints tool at the top of any article or visit: www.reutersreprints.com.


UPDATE 2-Firefighters gain some control over deadly Texas blaze
Wed, Sep 7 2011
 (adds Obama-Perry conversation, color)
 By Karen Brooks
 BASTROP, Texas, Sept 7 (Reuters) - Firefighters gained
ground on Wednesday for the first time against a deadly
wildfire raging near Austin that has destroyed more homes than
any other blaze in Texas history, officials said.
 The 34,356-acre (14,000-hectare) Bastrop County Complex
fire, which has forced the evacuation of 5,000 people, was
about 30 percent contained. The fire has destroyed 785 homes,
the Texas Forest Service reported, and killed two people.
 County officials have given a lower number for homes
destroyed.
 Firefighters who have fought the blaze, which stretches 24
miles long (39 km) and 20 miles (32 km) wide, since Sunday have
been helped in the past two days by decreased winds and cooler
temperatures, officials said.
 President Barack Obama spoke with Governor Rick Perry, who
was in California for a Republican presidential debate, on
Wednesday to discuss federal help for Texas.
 Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst visited the firefighting
command center and said he would ask the federal government to
declare the state a disaster area.
 Wildfires sweeping across drought-stricken Texas have
destroyed more than 1,000 homes and forced thousands of
evacuations in the last several days.
 More than 3.6 million acres (1.45 million hectares) in
Texas have been scorched by wildfires since November, fed by a
drought that has caused more than $5 billion in damage to the
state's agricultural industry and that shows no sign of
easing.
 The U.S. Forest Service has sent a team to the area to help
coordinate and Federal Emergency Management Agency officials
were on the ground assessing damage.
 Also assisting were about 100 members of Texas Task Force
1, an elite wide-area search team that will be searching the
enormous fire zone, said Mike Fisher, the county's emergency
management coordinator.
 "Essentially, the mission is to find whatever's out there
that we need to deal with," he said. "If we have environmental
hazards out there, eco-hazards out there, dead animals."
 The team was used in New York City after the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks and after Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.
 A DC-10 air tanker capable of carrying 12,000 gallons
(45,000 litres) of retardant to drop onto the flames -- four
times the normal capacity for retardant bombers -- landed in
Austin on Tuesday and will fly on Friday after a federally
mandated break.
 It had not yet been determined whether the DC-10 would be
used in Bastrop or sent to other sites in Texas.
 So far, four people have died in the Labor Day weekend
fires, including a mother and infant daughter who died in
northeast Texas on Sunday.
 (Additional reporting by Jim Forsyth; Editing by Jerry Norton,
Cynthia Johnston and Bill Trott)  



ÂŠ Thomson Reuters 2011. All rights reserved. Users may download and print extracts of content from this website for their own personal and non-commercial use only. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters and its logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of the Thomson Reuters group of companies around the world.
Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to colleagues, clients or customers, use the Reprints tool at the top of any article or visit: www.reutersreprints.com.























