
	Sports News and Trade Rumors: Pro Sports Daily

























Home



Fantasy




 Fantasy Main
 Baseball Contest
Football Contests»




 Football 3-Play
 Pigskin Pick em
 College Bowl Pick'em





 College Basketball Brackets
 Fantasy Football Advice
 Fantasy Baseball Advice
 Fantasy Basketball Advice
 Fantasy Hockey Advice








MLB

 MLB News
 MLB Rumors
 MLB Columns
 MLB Forum
 MLB Scores
 MLB Odds
 MLB Injuries
 MLB Standings 
 MLB Statistics





NFL

 NFL News
 NFL Rumors
 NFL Columns
 NFL Draft
 NFL Forum
 NFL Scores
 NFL Odds
 NFL Injuries
 NFL Standings 
 NFL Statistics





NBA

 NBA News
 NBA Rumors
 NBA Columns
 NBA Draft
 NBA Forum
 NBA Scores
 NBA Odds
 NBA Injuries
 NBA Standings 
 NBA Statistics





NHL

 NHL News
 NHL Rumors
 NHL Columns
 NHL Forum
 NHL Scores
 NHL Odds
 NHL Injuries
 NHL Standings 
 NHL Statistics





Forums

 Forum Main
Baseball»

 MLB
 Arizona Diamondbacks
 Comparisons
 Atlanta Braves
 Baltimore Orioles
 Boston Red Sox
 Chicago Cubs
 Chicago White Sox
 Cincinnati Reds
 Cleveland Indians
 Colorado Rockies
 Detroit Tigers
 Florida Marlins
 Houston Astros
 Kansas City Royals
 Los Angeles Angels
 Los Angeles Dodgers
 Milwaukee Brewers
 Minnesota Twins
 New York Mets
 New York Yankees
 Oakland Athletics
 Philadelphia Phillies
 Pittsburgh Pirates
 St. Louis Cardinals
 San Diego Padres
 San Francisco Giants
 Seattle Mariners
 Tampa Bay Rays
 Texas Rangers
 Toronto Blue Jays
 Washington Nationals
 Hall of Fame
 MLB Mock Offseason
 Minor Prospects
 Sabermetrics
 OOTP League
 



Basketball»

 NBA
 NBA Draft
 Comparisons
 NBA Trade Ideas
 NBA Sim League
 Atlanta Hawks
 Boston Celtics
 Charlotte Bobcats
 Chicago Bulls
 Cleveland Cavaliers
 Dallas Mavericks
 Denver Nuggets
 Detroit Pistons
 Golden State Warriors
 Houston Rockets
 Indiana Pacers
 Los Angeles Clippers
 Los Angeles Lakers
 Memphis Grizzlies
 Miami Heat
 Milwaukee Bucks
 Minnesota T-Wolves
 New Jersey Nets
 New Orleans Hornets
 New York Knicks
 OKC Thunder
 Orlando Magic
 Philadelphia 76ers
 Phoenix Suns
 Portland Trail Blazers
 Sacramento Kings
 San Antonio Spurs
 Toronto Raptors
 Utah Jazz
 Washington Wizards
 College Basketball
 FIBA/International
 NBA Mock Offseason



Football»

 NFL
 Arizona Cardinals
 Comparisons
 Atlanta Falcons
 NFL Sim League
 Baltimore Ravens
 Buffalo Bills
 Carolina Panthers
 Chicago Bears
 Cincinnati Bengals
 Cleveland Browns
 Dallas Cowboys
 Denver Broncos
 Detroit Lions
 Green Bay Packers
 Houston Texans
 Indianapolis Colts
 Jacksonville Jaguars
 Kansas City Chiefs
 Miami Dolphins
 Minnesota Vikings
 New England Patriots
 New Orleans Saints
 New York Giants
 New York Jets
 Oakland Raiders
 Philadelphia Eagles
 Pittsburgh Steelers
 St. Louis Rams
 San Diego Chargers
 San Francisco 49ers
 Seattle Seahawks
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers
 Tennessee Titans
 Washington Redskins
 NFL Draft
 NFL Mock Offseason
 College Football
 CFL
 Arena Football
 NFL Hall of Fame
 ACC
 Big East
 Big Ten
 Big 12
 Pac-10
 Southeastern
 



Hockey»

 NHL
 NHL Re-Draft
 Anaheim Ducks
 Boston Bruins
 Buffalo Sabres
 Calgary Flames
 Carolina Hurricanes
 Chicago Blackhawks
 Colorado Avalanche
 Columbus Blue Jackets
 Dallas Stars
 Detroit Red Wings
 Edmonton Oilers
 Florida Panthers
 Los Angeles Kings
 Minnesota Wild
 Montreal Canadiens
 Nashville Predators
 New Jersey Devils
 New York Islanders
 New York Rangers
 Ottawa Senators
 Philadelphia Flyers
 Phoenix Coyotes
 Pittsburgh Penguins
 St. Louis Blues
 San Jose Sharks
 Tampa Bay Lightning
 Toronto Maple Leafs
 Vancouver Canucks
 Washington Capitals
 Winnipeg Jets
 NHL Mock OffSeason
 



General»

 General Discussions
 Introductions
 Feedback and Support
 Entertainment
 Fantasy Football
 Fantasy Basketball
 Fantasy Baseball
 Fantasy Hockey
 Site Rules
 Computers/Vid Games
 Politics
 Music



Blogs»

 Athlete Blogs
 Member Blogs



Other Sports»

 Boxing
 Soccer
 Golf
 Motor Sports
 Other Sports
 Poker
 Wrestling
 Mixed Martial Arts
 Health & Fitness



Graphics»

 Graphic Help
 Showcase
 Requests
 Competitions
 Team Galleries
 Signature League









Scores

 MLB Scores
 NFL Scores
 NBA Scores
 NHL Scores





More

 Site Map
 Contact Us















League Pages
NFL News
NFL Rumors
NFL Columns
NFL Forum

MLB News
MLB Rumors
MLB Columns
MLB Forum

NBA News
NBA Rumors
NBA Columns
NBA Draft
NBA Forum

NHL News
NHL Rumors
NHL Columns
NHL Forum

Fantasy Pages
Fantasy Football
Fantasy Baseball
Fantasy Basketball
Fantasy Hockey





NEWS


RUMORS


COLUMNS


FANTASY BUZZ












BEAT NEWS: 24/7 in-depth player and team news from local beat writers in all major North American newspapers.
        

TEAM RUMORS: Read the hottest team, player and general sport rumors from every newspaper source around the web. See your breaking rumors here first.
        

LOCAL COLUMNISTS: A daily collection of columns from newspaper sources who publish the best and worst of your favorite teams and players.
        

INSIDE EDGE: Your one stop for all fantasy news on sleepers, hot players and waiver wire additions. The ultimate collection of expert strategies to help win your league.
        


NFL Headlines


Discuss with 199 NFL Fans in the forum!




                        Bradford injures nerve in finger
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    St. Louis Post-Dispatch
                     
                
                "Sam Bradford's injury was to the index finger on his right hand. X-rays showed no fracture, and it's being described as a nerve injury. Bradford said he was having trouble moving the finger after the game but emphasized that he fully expected to be in the lineup a week from tomorrow when the Rams meet the Giants in New York on Monday Night Football. *Other Rams injuries: WR Danny Amendola, dislocated elbow; RB Steven Jackson, thigh; T Jason Smith, sprained ankle; CB Ron Bartell, stringer; DE C.J. Ah You, wrist. *Stat of the day: QB Michael Vick accounted for 285 of the Eagles' 404 yards of offense. He passed for 187 yards and ran for 98. *Quote of the day: "I prepared all offseason for"
            



                        Dez Bryant injures thigh on punt return, expects to be fine for San Francisco
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Dallas Morning News
                     
                
                "Cowboys wide receiver Dez Bryant said he injured his thigh returning a punt early in the first quarter Sunday against the Jets. Bryant said the thigh injury was "kind of bothering me, but I felt like I could push through, so I stayed in." Bryant had three catches for 71 yards, all in the first eight minutes of the first quarter. Bryant said he also cramped up during the game, having to go to the locker room in the second half. Bryant said his thigh is "nothing serious.""
            



                        Scuffles with Ravens may cost Taylor and Polamalu
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
                     
                
                "Officials kicked no one out even though two of them hit the turf while Ravens and Steelers battled after play ended. But some of them can expect the fines to roll in this week. Take Steelers cornerback Ike Taylor . He was penalized 15 yards for unsportsmanlike conduct after he head-butted Ravens tackle Michael Oher . Or Troy Polamalu , who was involved in pushing and shoving with some Ravens who looked as though they were trying to bring him down around his ankles after a play."
            



                        Newton shows unexpected poise in first NFL game
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Charlotte Observer
                     
                
                "Cam Newton had last lost a football game on Halloween, 2009 when his Blinn Junior College Buccaneers were beaten by arch-rival Navarro Junior College of Corsicana, Tex. Newton lost his first NFL game Sunday to the Arizona Cardinals. When I asked about the previous loss, he immediately cited the Navarro Bulldogs. When you lose once in '09, and not at all in 2010, losses tend to stick. After the game, Newton looked, for the first time Sunday, as if he didn't know what to do. He dressed as slowly as a prom queen, finally putting on his pink shirt and tying his pink and blue tie. He picked up a towel, put it down, rubbed it across his head, squeezed it and stuck it in a bag. The Carolina"
            
More NFL NewsMLB Headlines


Discuss with 106 MLB Fans in the forum!




                        Cards, Carpenter agree on two-year extension
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    St. Louis Post-Dispatch
                     
                
                "Intent on transacting as much business as possible before dealing with Albert Pujols looming free agency, the Cardinals have reached agreement with 2005 NL Cy Young Award winner Chris Carpenter on a two-year contract extension worth about $21 million, according to sources familiar with the situation. The club intends to announce the deal later this week after finalizing formalities associated with the deal. However, terms of the deal are in place and Carpenter last week passed a physical required for insurance. The extension rolls the clubs $15 million option on Carpenter for 2012 into a longer structure that allows the club about $4 million in annual savings over Carpenters salary for"
            



                        Beckett to throw off mound Monday
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Boston Globe
                     
                
                "There was a sliver of good news as the Red Sox slunk out of Tropicana Field yesterday after being swept by the Rays. Josh Beckett will report to Fenway Park today and throw off the bullpen mound. In theory, that would line him up to start Thursday or Friday. Beckett has been out since last Monday, when he sprained his right ankle in the fourth inning in Toronto. His return would be a huge boost. Beckett is hoping to start one of the games against the Rays, a series that starts Thursday. "We'll see. I don't know. I think that might be a little ambitious but I think he wants to do it, which is a good sign,'' manager Terry Francona said. "We'll see how he feels.''"
            



                        Tampa Bay Rays call up top pitching prospect Matt Moore
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    St. Petersburg Times
                     
                
                "Three-and-a-half games out is apparently close enough, as the Rays are calling up fireballing LHP Matt Moore in an attempt to bolster their bullpen. Moore, 22, emerged as one of the top prospects in the game with a spectacular 2011 season, going a combined 12-3, 1.92 with 210 strikeouts in 155 innings at Double-A Montgomery and Triple-A Durham. Moore, with a fastball clocked in the high 90-mph range, joins the Rays today in Baltimore as the bullpen is shorthanded with closer Kyle Farnsworth sidelined by elbow tenderness."
            



                        Three days later, Tampa Bay Rays' chances seem very real for shot at playoffs
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    St. Petersburg Times
                     columnist John Romano
                
                "Numbers still favor the Red Sox at this point. Of course, the numbers aren't staring at Josh Beckett's tender ankle or Erik Bedard's sore knee. And the numbers have nothing on the medical chart (back sprain, sports hernia, hip bursitis) of Boston third baseman Kevin Youkilis. Logic says the Red Sox are still in an enviable position this morning. Of course, logic knows nothing of damp palms or nervous laughter. And logic cannot explain the increasing tightness of a pair of underpants when your lead in the wild-card race goes from nine games to 3Â˝ in a little more than a week. "Hopefully," Rays DH Johnny Damon said, "they can feel us coming." Just three days ago, I tried explaining why it"
            
More MLB NewsNBA Headlines


Discuss with 72 NBA Fans in the forum!




                        Report: Fisher sent players text saying to be physically ready for season
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Pro Basketball Talk
                     
                
                "If you believe that if there's smoke, there's fire, then this post is going to make you pretty happy about the state of affairs in the NBA lockout discussions. If you're the type that believes if there's fire, there's fire, then this will simply give you something else to consider as nothing but white noise. SI reports that off the heels of last week's positive news about the CBA negotiations, Derek Fisher sent a text to indicate to the players the tone of the talks and it's good:     "On the heels of Roger Mason's now-infamous tweet in which the NBPA vice president wrote, "Looking like a season. How u," but later claimed his account was hacked, one league source claims that union"
            



                        Rubio's scoring struggles continue
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    ESPN.com
                     
                
                "Three assists, four steals and five rebounds off the bench against Germany on Wednesday. Not bad. Zero points? Not so great. Ricky Rubio acknowledged that the only statistic that truly counted was to be found in Spain's win column at EuroBasket. But the soon-to-be Minnesota Timberwolves point guard has failed to find any solution for his shooting woes since arriving in Lithuania. Lately, his lack of scoring has become an expectation rather than an aberration."
            



                        Shift toward NBA's future makes Silver, Fisher key negotiators
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    CBSSports.com
                     
                
                "The NBA labor talks have reached a tipping point. Which way they tip will have plenty to do with two men who are crucial to saving the season over the next week of expanded negotiations and ever-rising stakes. They're just not the two men you may have in mind. Ultimately, the buck will stop with David Stern and Billy Hunter, who've done this dance before and whose legacies are on the line. But just as the torch is being passed on the court -- from the likes of Kobe Bryant and Kevin Garnett to the younger generation led by Kevin Durant and Blake Griffin -- so, too, has there been a subtle yet important changing of the guard at the negotiating table.  With the cadre of longtime owners loyal"
            



                        Refs lockout next?
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    HoopsHype.com
                     
                
                "Let's suppose for a second that the NBA and its players each experience the proverbial 'Come to Jesus' moment in the next week or so and agree on a new Collective Bargaining Agreement. The 2011-12 season would then start on time, right? Well, yes, it would. But it also could well start with plenty of unfamiliar faces on the floor. That's because a big part of the NBA "game presentation" as David Stern likes to call it is, at present, also without a contract for next season. That would be the 60 NBA referees. In a 'here we go again,' situation, the referees' CBA with the league expired eight days ago (on Sept. 1.) While the league says the two sides are still talking - there has been"
            
More NBA NewsNHL Headlines


Discuss with 15 NHL Fans in the forum!




                        Bylsma likely to add 2-3 different faces to Pens' roster
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
                     
                
                "There will be, Penguins coach Dan Bylsma figures, no more than "two to three" spots up for grabs on his team's 23-man roster when it opens training camp later this week. That could change, of course -- injuries and trades and such can cause seismic alterations in any team's plans -- but the lineup that tied for the third-most points in the NHL in 2010-11 largely intact, and the Penguins still have some of the game's most elite talents on their payroll. But even if their personnel stay largely the same between now and the regular-season opener Oct. 6, in Vancouver that doesn't mean a few things won't be dramatically different in 2011-12."
            



                        Sabres set to mix and match
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Buffalo News
                     
                
                "The easiest way to explain the emotions, Robyn Regehr said, is to imagine you're the new kid in school. The faces are unfamiliar, the course load is alien and the scenery is strange. Yet beneath the anxiety, there is a thrill of anticipation, an eagerness to learn fresh things. Classes start this week for Regehr and the rest of the Buffalo Sabres. The 2011-12 NHL season begins Friday when the Sabres formally arrive in town for physicals. They'll take the ice for the first time Saturday in Northtown Center at Amherst. "For me, it's quite a bit different than a lot of the players that are returning," said Regehr, one of the Sabres' prime additions during the offseason. "Just being a part of"
            



                        Hawks star Kane says he'll be ready for opener 
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Chicago Sun-Times
                     
                
                "Blackhawks star Patrick Kane still has a cast on his left wrist, but he has no doubts about being ready to play when the season opens Oct. 7. ''It's been a long time, and I'm anxious to start the season,'' Kane said Saturday as he and four teammates took part in Blackhawks Day at U.S. Cellular Field. ''I think I'll be ready right away. I think once I get this [cast] off, I'll be able to do pretty much anything. I practiced with the guys the other day, just trying to keep up with skating. I think just strengthening it will be the only thing.'' Kane had surgery to repair the fracture during an otherwise ''good summer,'' he said."
            



                        NHL can lend help, if a player wants it
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Minneapolis Star Tribune
                     
                
                "The NHL and NHL Players' Association will spend much of training camp reinforcing to players that there are resources available if they have problems with addiction or depression. The offseason deaths of Derek Boogaard, Rick Rypien and Wade Belak also caused the parties to say they would examine each death and conduct an evaluation of existing programs and practices. "I know they're taking a beating right now, but they've had programs in place for years to help," former Florida Panthers fighter Peter Worrell said. "I think a lot of it is the mentality that guys don't want to take that leap, to make that phone call and say, 'Look, I need help.' "Hopefully now guys will say, 'I don't want"
            
More NHL News












    Forum Top 10




                Things we've learned from Week 1
            


                Last post: LongIslandIcedZ
            



                Detroit 3 games under Boston
            


                Last post: mark1125
            



                Cam Newton The Real Deal?
            


                Last post: FarOutIos
            



                Who would you trade for Josh Johnson?
            


                Last post: TAC91
            



                Are the Colts bad enough to get number one draft pick?
            


                Last post: thawv
            



                MNF: Denver Broncos Vs. Oakland Raiders
            


                Last post: Bigdaddyburch
            



                MNF: New England Patriots Vs. Miami Dolphins
            


                Last post: TomTerrific
            



                Derek Fisher: "Compromise is close"
            


                Last post: Stack_NJNets
            



                Who is the most fundamentally sound player in the history of the game?
            


                Last post: Stack_NJNets
            



                The Rondo Affect
            


                Last post: Corey
            





From the Network


September 11, 11:09 PM
Jon Beason may have torn Achilles
September 11, 9:56 PM
Fisher to players: Be ready for hoops
September 11, 8:37 PM
Cam Newton sets rookie record
September 11, 5:58 PM
Nate Kaeding carted off field
September 11, 4:06 PM
Bengals' Dalton leaves game




ProSportsDaily Fantasy Sports




        Pick winners and win cash! Double your points with confidence picks. 
        Click Here.
    





        Your quick fantasy football fix! Pick a new QB, RB and WR every week.
        Click Here.
    





        Pitching. Outfield. Infield. Build a new team every week for your chance at the cash! 
        Click Here.
    











Your browser does not support iframes.





Customer Service: Site Map
    | Contact Us | Privacy
    | Terms of Service


Copyright © 1995-2011 
    SportsDirect Inc. All Rights Reserved.
ProSportsDaily.com is not affiliated with the NBA, NFL, MLB, or any
    of the newspapers linked to.


 



