Texas residents quickly fled as Bastrop Complex wildfire closed in  | Lubbock Online | Lubbock Avalanche-Journal




 



 


 







 



 


 







 



 


 





















 









68°
Broken clouds





More Weather 



 







 









Join Now!
 | 
Login

Forgot Password?









Subscribe to the Avalanche-Journal









Site

Web







Web Search powered by YAHOO! Search



 

 
 




Home
News
Sports
Business
Life
Opinion
A-J Pedia
Obituaries
Autos
Homes
Jobs
Classifieds
Service
  


 





 


Filed online





Comment










Follow This Article 

Texas residents quickly fled as Bastrop Complex wildfire closed in Posted: September 8, 2011 - 9:23am



















 
Advertisement






				By           
CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN





            Copyright 2011 . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
          
 
September 8, 2011 - 10:23am
Texas residents quickly fled as Bastrop Complex wildfire closed in 

				  ASSOCIATED PRESS			 
BASTROP — Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home.
In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make four trips loading clothes and a few important possessions into his Mustang. He could feel the blaze's heat and hear the crackling roar as he packed his car. Less than two hours after they drove away for the last time Sunday, the Bastrop Complex fire consumed his home and six other houses of relatives who all lived within about four square miles of each other.
"My house, my sister-in-law, her brother, my mother-in-law and three brothers-in-law houses are gone," the 53-year-old bail bondsman said Wednesday outside the county convention center where he came to find out about federal assistance. "Everything's gone now."
Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety. The White House said President Barack Obama telephoned Gov. Rick Perry to say the federal government would continue providing firefighting assistance and quickly assess requests for more aid.
Many Bastrop residents said they had received cell phone photos or videos from those who sneaked back into the fire zone or from volunteer firefighters and police who checked on friends' homes. Others were left to crowd around lists of the lost street addresses posted at the county convention center.
The fire was about 30 percent contained Wednesday and firefighters hoped to take advantage of low winds to make more progress. The destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week — one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which has been blamed for a total of four deaths.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team, mobilized Wednesday in Bastrop to search the smoldering ruins for more victims. But several thousand people successfully evacuated ahead of the fire, and Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said about 2,500 people had stopped by one of the county's shelters. Many more people likely stayed with family or friends.
Some residents needed no urging to leave because they saw the flames lapping at the trees. Others heard from friends and neighbors, while still others found a sheriff's deputy at their door or heard firemen rolling down the street with bullhorns. In most cases no one had to be told twice. A wildfire here two years ago drove people from their homes and everyone knew about the severity of the drought.
That was the case for Jose "Pepe" Gomez, 57, who had just returned from church to his girlfriend's house Sunday afternoon.
"We were going to celebrate my girlfriend's grandson's birthday, who is only two ...We were going to have a pool party at her swimming pool, have cake for the kids, then they said 'get out,'" Gomez said. "We got evacuated from three locations on that same day. In less than 12 hours we were evacuated three times."
"When you looked up you could see this huge cloud ... we knew it was serious," he said.
Gomez said his girlfriend lost everything after having only enough time to grab a little clothing for her kids and a Bible.
"She was in hysteria when she was told her house was leveled," Gomez said. It was the second home she lost to fire.
Brenda Sanders, a 63-year-old hospice nurse whose home had so far survived the blaze, said she had been oblivious to the fire until a sheriff's deputy came to her door. She and her husband had about 20 minutes to gather items. They grabbed the flags that were on their fathers' caskets, some important insurance documents, mementos from her husband's high school and college football career and their cats.
"It's just been a nightmare," she said. "It's been surreal, the whole experience."
Her friend Denise Rodgers, 56, a hospice chaplain, was not so fortunate. Her house in Tahitian Village burned. First, a friend sent her a photo showing her house untouched. "I was thinking I was in the clear." But later she received a shaky video of the flames circling her home and climbing up one side.
"I could see it coming, you know, over the trees," Rodgers said of her last minutes in the house. "I could see the pink glow so I knew it was close."



TAGS:  Filed online
CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN
Austin
Austin-Round Rock metropolitan area
Barack Obama
Bastrop
Bastrop Complex
Bastrop County, Texas
Bastrop, Texas
Brenda Sanders
Business
Business
cellular telephone
Denise Rodgers
Dennis Silman
Disaster
Disaster
Entertainment
Entertainment
Environment
Environment
Geography of the United States
Governor
Health
Health
Jose "Pepe" Gomez
Man Made Disaster
Natural Disaster
Person Attributes
Person Career
Person Relation
Politics
Politics
president
Quotation
Rick Perry
sheriff
Technology
Technology
Texas
Texas
US Federal Reserve
USD
White House





Comment










Follow This Article 





0




 





 



 Spotted





Please Note: You may have disabled JavaScript and/or CSS. Although this news content will be accessible, certain functionality is unavailable.
	
Skip to News
« back
next »



 






 






 








Fiestas Patrias 2011
Forever Remember 911
The Cowboy Symposium Parade of Horses
In the Pink
Borden Co v Petersburg 2010
Gator Fest 2011
Texas Tech vs Texas State
Tech vs Texas State Raider Alley

 


 





 
Advertisement


 
Advertisement




 







 







 



 Staff Journals










8 hours 50 min ago


Lubbock police to bring back Explorer Post program


Adam D. Young








10 hours 18 min ago


'Contagion' wipes out competition


William Kerns








10 hours 37 min ago


'United 93' remains gripping history


William Kerns








10 hours 58 min ago


Festival a draw for 40-plus years


William Kerns








11 hours 16 min ago


Crickets not intentionally slighted


William Kerns





    more  

 


 







 



 Community Blogs










 



Wisconsin voter ID: Poll tax?




BY 
Bert Knabe 

Blog: Glass Houses » 		


 






 



Thank You, President George W. Bush, For Keeping Us Safe!




BY 
may 

Blog: Mr. Conservative » 		


 






 



On the Anniversary of 9-11




BY 
lubbockleft 

Blog: Lubbock Left » 		


 

 


 







 



 Most Commented




City reveals names of employees tapped for viewing porn 
				 | Comments: 34 




Federal agents investigate solar firm that received $535 million U.S. loan 
				 | Comments: 29 




Leach plans book signing at Sam's Club 
				 | Comments: 22 




Former VP Cheney says things in the US would be different with Hillary Clinton 
				 | Comments: 22 




Lubbock motorcyclist dies after crash on Loop 289 
				 | Comments: 22 




As dust storm blows in, Texas Tech blows away Texas State 
				 | Comments: 21 




Melt denies organizing Buddy Holly Avenue Birthday Bash 
				 | Comments: 20 




New Mexico governor says her grandparents came to U.S. illegally 
				 | Comments: 19 




Frustration grows for Texas fire evacuees over perceived delay in federal response 
				 | Comments: 17 




Ron Paul says Perry's poll numbers will fall quickly once voters get to know him 
				 | Comments: 12 




Typical workers would get extra $1,500 in paychecks next year under Obama new plan 
				 | Comments: 11 




Employers add no net jobs in August; rate unchanged 
				 | Comments: 10 




Obama looks to create jobs, put GOP on the spot  
				 | Comments: 10 




Williams: Bobcats catch Texas Tech by surprise 
				 | Comments: 9 




Letter: Tea party was right to stand against debt ceiling increase 
				 | Comments: 9 





 







 



 Recent Comments





Anyone doubt

Re: James Pethokoukis, Reuters

@rettch





 









 









 



 



 














Site

Web







Web Search powered by YAHOO! Search



 



 


 
 




					Avalanche-Journal
			

News
Sports
Money
Life
Opinion
A-J Pedia




					Multimedia
			

Facebook
Twitter
  
Spotted
Archive
Video / Slideshows




					Our Websites
			

Red Raiders
Lone Star Varsity
skirt! Lubbock
Lubbock Magazine
Make Kids Count
Frenship Today




					Our Products
			

Classifieds
Homes
Rentals
Autos
A-J's List
Find Lubbock jobs




					A-J Services
			

Contact Us
Staff directory
Staff Journals
A-J Subscriber Services
e-edition
Site Map


 

  
 


 





Lubbock Avalanche-Journal ©2011.  All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
 









