Reactor Core May Be Leaking at Damaged Fukushima Plant | Today News



Home



Today News

 
International – Breaking, World, Business, Sports, Entertainment and Video News. 
			







Entertainment

Sports

Sci/Tech

U.S.

World









								Mar							

								25							


Reactor Core May Be Leaking at Damaged Fukushima Plant









Japan’s nuclear regulator said a reactor core at the quake-damaged Fukushima power plant may be leaking after workers were injured by radioactive water.The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday there may be some kind of leak from the reactor, causing high levels of radiation found in water in the basement of the reactor No. 3’s turbine building. Three workers were hospitalized after stepping in the water.
 
“We’re trying to prevent a deterioration of the situation,” Prime Minister Naoto Kan said in a public address in Tokyo yesterday. “We must continue to work with a high sense of alertness.”Repair work at the site of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl has been plagued by explosions, fires and leaks of toxic material. The plant’s operator Tokyo Electric Power Co. said pools of radioactive water had accumulated at other reactors, Kyodo News reported.Tokyo Electric plans to drain the water from the building, spokesman Osamu Yokokura said. It has yet to determine how and when to do this, he said.Complicating Cleanup
“The water that is coming out of that area is much higher in terms of radiation and this is obviously complicating the clean up,” said Tony Roulstone, an atomic engineer who directs the University of Cambridge’s master’s program in nuclear energy. “If it’s leaking out then they have to figure out some way to contain this water.”
The agency said yesterday it doesn’t think there is a physical crack in the pressure vessel or containment vessel at the No. 3 reactor.
Tokyo Electric found water at No. 1 reactor with radiation levels 10,000 times higher than normal cooling water, company officials said at a press conference shown on a webcast.The March 11 quake, Japan’s biggest ever, left the plant without power needed to cool nuclear fuel rods. Japan yesterday advised more people living close to the nuclear plant to evacuate because basic goods are in short supply, while assuring them that radiation levels haven’t risen.
Radiation readings around residents living between 20 kilometers (12 miles) and 30 kilometers from the plant are falling, according to the Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan.
An order for the residents to remain inside their homes doesn’t have to be amended right now, commission member Seiji Shiroya said yesterday.
Should the reading for radioactive substances start to increase, the commission will advise the government to change the order for evacuation, he told a press conference in Tokyo.
Death Toll
The death toll from the quake and tsunami climbed to 10,102 as of 9 p.m. local time yesterday, with 17,053 people missing, according to the National Police Agency in Tokyo.
The spread of radiation to food and water supplies prompted bulk-buying of bottled drinks even as the government said the health threat remained minimal.
Changing weather systems were due to drive radiation from the Fukushima plant over the Pacific Ocean yesterday, Austria’s Meteorological and Geophysics Center reported, citing data from the United Nations nuclear-test ban treaty organization.
Wind will carry the radionuclides for a “short while” inland, the center said on its website. Reactors at Fukushima may have released as much as 20 percent of the radioactive iodine and up to 60 percent of the radioactive cesium that resulted from the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, according to the report.
The maximum radiation reading reported so far at the nuclear plant is 500 millisieverts per hour, meaning a worker in the vicinity would receive the maximum-allowed dose in 30 minutes. Tokyo Electric said 17 workers had received more than 100 millisieverts of radiation since the crisis started.
–With assistance from Kanoko Matsuyama in Singapore, Naoko Fujimura in Osaka, Jonathan Tirone in Vienna, Akiko Nishimae and Jim Polson in New York, Tsuyoshi Inajima, Sachiko Sakamaki and Taku Kato in Tokyo, Kari Lundgren in London and Tara Patel in Paris. Editors: Stephen Cunningham, Jonas Bergman.
 







 Tags: business, companies, economy, headlines, industry, politics, world



Posted by admin
Sports 
Subscribe to RSS feed





2 Comments on Reactor Core May Be Leaking at Damaged Fukushima Plant




 Mr WordPress says: 

			March 25, 2011 at 5:29 PM 
Hi, this is a comment.To delete a comment, just log in and view the post's comments. There you will have the option to edit or delete them.

Reply 





 admin says: 

			April 23, 2011 at 2:48 PM 
Happy Easter …./

Reply 






Leave a Reply Cancel reply

 Required fields are marked *Your email address will never be published or shared. Name *
Email *
Website
Comment  




 






Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (97)
 August 2011  (181)
 July 2011  (165)
 June 2011  (92)
 May 2011  (272)
 April 2011  (425)
 March 2011  (43)

 



















 


 

  Today News 
Opera review: ‘Heart of a Soldier’(Photos)
A murky Oscar picture at Toronto
Acer And AT&T To Offer Iconia Tab A501 With 4G Connectivity
Hacker Rattles Security Circles
Stosur family numbed by daughter’s U.S. Open success
Cubs Game Day: Cubs-Mets go into 11th inning
Casey Anthony trial costs: How much she’ll pay is up to judge | Video
Gay marriage ban debated in North Carolina
One of Qaddafi’s Sons Flees to Niger as New Leaders Focus on Next Steps
77 U.S. troops injured in Taliban truck bombing(Photo-Video)







RSS





Load Times Plugin made by Cheap Web Hosting
