Savvy's Virtual Job Concierge - Find Jobs, Post Jobs For Free, Business Opportunities and Lots More
Savvy Talent & Virtual Jobs

Promote Your Page Too
















    Custom Search
  
 









        Home


        Register


        Login


        Submit ad


        Search


        Recent ads


        Popular ads







                  Latest 20 ads                





          Please register or log in.        











WELCOME TO SAVVY'S VIRTUAL JOB CONCIERGE


Find Jobs, or Post Jobs FREE, Savvys Virtual Jobs, your source for Online Job Opportunities!  Savvys Virtual Jobs is your marketplace for legitimate telecommute jobs, work at home resources, and the latest business opportunities.  We save the job seeker time and aggravation by scouring the internet for current online job opportunities.
Try the Virtual Job Concierge for free! We provide employers with a free opportunity to post their jobs.  Have a business opportunity you would like to promote? Advertise it here!







 





Featured Jobs [1]





Find jobs from employers whose priority is to get the position filled!




Business Opportunity [0]





Look for business opportunities and/or post your own here.




Administrative [-20]





Find and post administrative related jobs here.




Customer Service [164]





Find and post customer service related jobs here.






Sales & Marketing [-139]





Find and post sales/marketing related jobs here.




IT,Web,Software [1187]





Find and post IT, web and software related jobs here.




E-Commerce [4]





Find and post e-commerce related jobs here.




Design & Media [279]





Find and post design/media related jobs here.






Human Resources [-11]





Find and post human resource related jobs here.




Education [34]





Find and post education related jobs here.




Writing+Translation [1076]





Find and post writing and/or translation jobs here.




Healthcare [130]





Find and post healthcare related jobs here.






Finance [57]





Find and post finance related jobs here.




Management [39]





Find and post management related positions here.




Legal [22]





Find and post positions in the legal sector here.




Other [106]





Find and post jobs that may not fit a specific category, suitable for odd jobs and the like.


















            Drupal Web Developer          


Budget: $10,000 +

Description

Know a thing or two about writing custom modules, themes, and creating websites with Drupal? Commercial Progression seeks a qualified Drupal Developer to join our team. This is a full-time position in Farmington Hills, MI with the flexibility of working remotely a couple days a week-- we're looking for a Drupal developer interested in creating new & cool websites, without worrying about looking busy while sitting at an assigned desk!

What This Job is All About

Our company is focused around Drupal 100%.  We create websites, train students, support clients, and host websites.  Here's what we expect of you:

    Understand the goals and strategy behind each project from conception through completion.
    Write clean, well-engineered code that conforms with accepted standards within the Drupal community, and test it.
    Communicate effectively with team members, as well as outside stakeholders.
    Identify opportunities for process improvement and make constructive suggestions for change.


Who We Are Looking For

Drupal Developers bring a broad range of skills with them including a background in different technologies, critical thinking skills and expertise we use to deliver great results to clients. Important skills to have include the following:

    The ability to interact with clients in person and electronically to help them to understand Drupal. This includes:
    exploring ideas for how to use the platform, and explaining what various modules do.
    collecting requirements and helping people craft their strategy for how to use their web sites.
    demonstrating new features as they become available, receiving feedback and incorporating it in your work.
    knowledge of PHP and MySQL development techniques, including the following:
    using git for code checkouts, version control, and deployment techniques.
    web server and database tuning.
    the ability to work without direct supervision, to acquire new knowledge quickly and autonomous, to be flexible and responsive to change, and to keep others aware of your schedule for planning purposes.

Nice-to-haves include the following:

    visible participation in the local Drupal scene.
    using an IDE like Netbeans, Eclipse or an equivalent.
    jQuery and CSS development skills.
    understanding of Linux servers and system administration.
    experience with scalability issues and high performance web sites.
    technical documentation like concept diagrams, site maps, feature lists, data transformation tables, and anything else that provides transparency to our process.
    LAMP stack system administration skills.
    writing skills.

Why You Would Want to Work Here

Commercial Progression is a young and growing company, is working with recognizable, big name clients, and is interested in the steady growth and development of our team. There are a lot of reasons you might want to look at working with us:

    We build powerful and flexible Drupal sites.
    We focus on measurable goals and objectives above just putting in hours from 9-5.
    You get to travel and attend Drupal functions all over the place.
    You can come in to the office part of the week and work from home the other part of the week-- there's no boss looking over your shoulder telling you to logout of facebook.
    You get to influence the direction of the company and how we stay competitive.

Created: 2011-09-04





            Comedy blogger with a taste for the absurd          


New Media project seeks blogger (s) to help populate, manage and “voice” a site that catalogues and celebrates the absurdity of modern life. Site will feature a wide variety of user generated content in the form of letters, memos, pictures and video’s highlighting absurdity wherever it is found; modern culture, business, politics, sports, etc . If you’ve been looking for a place to skewer these topics you’ve come to the right place.

Created: 2011-09-01





            Youth Sports Writer          


Examiner.com, the fastest growing local content network in the nation, is looking for experienced online freelance writers (Examiners) to write. Examiners are passionate local insiders who come from all backgrounds but have two main traits in common - a lot of knowledge about a specific topic and solid writing ability.

DESCRIPTION:

We seek Examiners to write in our SPORTS category about HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS.

Examiners write from a local perspective in the third person. This generally includes tips and useful information on upcoming events, specials/deals/promotions, athlete profiles, coach interviews, and other topic-related articles. Examiners work from home as independent contractors and set their own pace as far as when and how often they publish. Because the level of readership and earnings success is influenced by publishing frequency, those who publish at least 3 – 5 times a week tend to build a larger and more engaged audience.


This is the ideal opportunity for you if you relate to any of the following:

► I'm an aspiring writer. I've been blogging for some time now but my readership isn't where I'd like it to be and sometimes I wonder if anyone is reading my posts.

► I'm already an established professional writer and/or author and I want another writing outlet where I have more creative freedom and where I can develop my online writing skills.

► I already have a job but seek something fun and stimulating to do where I can also earn extra cash, network, meet active and smart people, and learn new tech and media skills.

► I've been unemployed and don't want a big gap on my resume, but am not able to commit to anything that will prevent me from continuing my job search.

► I want to make a career change. I know so much but am having difficulty showcasing my knowledge to recruiters and potential employers because I lack experience.

► I'm not a professional writer but I am a professional in my field. I love writing and am good at it. I'd love to share what I know with others, showcase my industry, and gain exposure as the local topic expert.

Created: 2011-09-10





            WordPress + Thesis Theme Developer Needed          


Budget: $100 to $500

I need some one to make website similar to http://bit.ly/ntR5Z4 using WordPress and premium Thesis theme (I already have developer license for it).

Kindly contact me with your previous work. 
And let me know how much time will it take?

Created: 2011-09-11





            Seeking Very Skilled PHP/MYSQL Programmer          


Budget: $500 to $1,000

Seeking PHP/MYSQL programmer to build custom built clean platforms.  No WP, or anything standard.  The work we outsource is complex and custom.  We provide PSD files and a scope sheet, you would execute the programming.  Please contact us only if you are very skilled at PHP/MYSQL and have samples!

Thanks!

Created: 2011-09-04





            CTO and Lead SaaS Developer (Ruby on Rails)          


Budget: $10,000 +

We are seeking a talented programmer/developer who will lead the development of a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) product offering targeting the tradeshow and exhibition event industry. In this role, you will be responsible for architecting and leading the development of the product through implementation, including selection of technologies and programming. More broadly, you will be part of the leadership group working together to achieve success. 

REQUIREMENTS: Must live in Orange or Los Angeles County, California; Must have extensive knowledge of Ruby on Rails development and Agile methodology; Must have experience designing and building enterprise SaaS or consumer web applications with particular attention to scalability and high performance; Must have the ability to communicate effectively in writing, verbally, and as a presenter; Must be self-motivated and self-managed with a high degree of analytical ability and intellectual curiosity; Must be passionate about creating quality products; Must be AWESOME

TO APPLY: Please send us the following: 1.Your profile (preferably LinkedIn address)  2.URL for three sites you've helped develop  3.URL for three sites you wish you had developed and why  4.Answer to this question: If you were to build a product similar to Basecamp from 37Signals, what technology toolset would you use and why?

Created: 2011-09-11





            Pets Writer - Newark, NJ          


Examiner.com, the fastest growing local content network in the nation, is looking for experienced online freelance writers (Examiners) to write. Examiners are passionate local insiders who come from all backgrounds but have two main traits in common - a lot of knowledge about a specific topic and solid writing ability.

DESCRIPTION:

We seek Examiners to write in our PETS category, focusing on one specific topic area, especially the following:

► Newark Animal Advocacy
► Newark Animal News
► Newark Animal Rights
► Newark Cat Scene
► Newark Dog Behavior & Training
► Newark Dog Care
► Newark Dog Rescue
► Newark Dog Supplies
► Newark Pet Adoption
► Newark Pet Grooming
► Newark Pet Insurance
► Newark Pet Laws
► Newark Pet Photography
► Newark Pet Places
► Newark Pet Therapy

Examiners write from a local perspective in the third person. Pets writers generally provide tips and useful information on breeds, upcoming events, specials/deals/promotions, vendor and product reviews, interviews with animal specialists or owners, reports on national or global issues relevant to the topic along with local resources, and other topic-related articles. Examiners work from home as independent contractors and set their own pace as far as when and how often they publish. Because the level of readership and earnings success is influenced by publishing frequency, those who publish at least 3 – 5 times a week tend to build a larger and more engaged audience.

This is the ideal opportunity for you if you relate to any of the following:

► I'm an aspiring writer. I've been blogging for some time now but my readership isn't where I'd like it to be and sometimes I wonder if anyone is reading my posts.

► I'm already an established professional writer and/or author and I want another writing outlet where I have more creative freedom and where I can develop my online writing skills.

► I already have a job but seek something fun and stimulating to do where I can also earn extra cash, network, meet active and smart people, and learn new tech and media skills.

► I've been unemployed and don't want a big gap on my resume, but am not able to commit to anything that will prevent me from continuing my job search.

► I want to make a career change. I know so much but am having difficulty showcasing my knowledge to recruiters and potential employers because I lack experience.

► I'm not a professional writer but I am a professional in my field. I love writing and am good at it. I'd love to share what I know with others, showcase my industry, and gain exposure as the local topic expert.

Created: 2011-09-10





            iPhone Programmer          


Budget: $1,000 to $2,500

We are currently looking for a very fun and talented iPhone developer to join our mobile development team for our next project. We currently consist of an artist and an Android OS developer but wish to make our next game cross platform thus the reason in opening this position.

What we're looking for are the following:

    A good background of programming games for pc as well as mobile.
    Very indepth knowledge of various mobile engines and developing comfortably for IOS.
    Superb understanding of what players want and implementing those ideas.
    Excellent knowledge of the Open Feint system.
    A keen interest in gaming and mobile gaming.
    Someone who has great respect for the artists and can work very well with 2D artwork.
    A good team player with excellent work ethics and communication skills.

Our budget and payment for development will be discussed up on finding the successful applicant.

If you are interested please contact us as soon as possible!

Created: 2011-09-04





            Custom Content Management System Development          


Budget: $2,500 to $5,000

We are looking to outsource the development of a custom Content Management System made from PHP, Ajax, with a flexible system that could be robust and applied to any site with flexibility of customized design and content management. We are looking to develop a system more for content management instead of a blog engine type system like word press. The custom CMS would accomplish the following:  

    Robust publishing
    Content management and syndication system
    Online ad management and targeting
    Site traffic and ad performance reports
    Search engine optimized content
    Business listing directories
    Service content directories
    Advanced content tagging system
    Targeted online advertising and sponsorships
    Site search engine
    Blogs
    Polling
    E-commerce
    Order management
    Photo galleries
    Video
    Surveys
    Weather
    Calendars
    User commenting
    RSS feeds
    Social Media Integration i.e. Facebook, Twitter

  Looking for a robust turn around we are open to single developers but because of the deadline it may suit teams better but we welcome all inquiries. Provide rates also.

Created: 2011-09-08





            (Full Time role) Web designer/developer          


Budget: $5,000 to $10,000

This position is located in the Oak Brook, IL area and our client will not pay re-location. We will not accept any H1-B’s for this role, nor will we work any outside consulting firms to fill this role. Our client has a strong interested in candidates coming from the Corporate side of Web Development.  Independent contractors will not be considered.

DUTIES:  You will be responsible for:  (1) Designing, building, and maintaining organizational web site content, web sites, and proposed application prototypes; (2) Developing and debugging new and existing web site content and web sites in XHTML and CSS; (3) Designing and developing detailed final graphical HTML prototypes; (4) Designing and developing pre-production and design wireframe models for web  content and web site planning and evaluation; (5) Providing workflow and design specification documentation; (6) Providing documented requirements and estimated deadlines to all affected entities; (7) Designing, developing, testing, and supporting web site pages in alignment with documented requirements and deadlines; (8) Designing, troubleshooting, and resolving issues with web sites utilizing heavy AJAX functionality; (9) Creating creative user centered designed solutions to achieve a visual description of the desired web content; (10) Consulting with stakeholders on applications, information and content structure, user interface and presentation; (11) Documenting and communicating project updates with all entities; (12) Monitoring defined requirement and timeline targets.

REQUIRED: MUST have 2 years of STRONG/CURRENT web content design and development with EXPERT level HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  MUST have STRONG/CURRENT content management experience. MUST have STRONG/CURRENT proficiency with Adobe Photoshop and/or Fireworks and/or Illustrator, Adobe Flash, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office, and translating graphic design into web content. MUST have

STRONG/CURRENT troubleshooting through resolution of web browser compatibility (IE6, IE7, IE8, Firefox, Safari) and modern compliance standards (i.e. W3C). MUST be working in a .net development environment and have basic comprehension of master pages and themes.

MUST have excellent communication (written and verbal) and interpersonal skills and be able to work in a fast paced, dynamic, deadline oriented, customer facing environment. Pluses:  SEO.

Created: 2011-09-02





            Flex Developer          


Budget: $10,000 +

We are currently searching to fill the following position:
 
Flex Developer / System architect at FIT Talent Management
 
This position is located in Bulgaria/Romania or Poland and provides access into a highly reputable international consulting environment. The position is a full-time freelance position (home office) with continuous project contracts. For instance, your task would be to develop software applications based on basic functional descriptions and work with your based team lead.
 
If you are interested in learning more about this career opportunity, we kindly ask you to provide us with a full English CV that includes details about your former IT project experience.
 
With us you have the possibility to get to know the most interesting international projects, modern programming methods and a lot of exciting challenges as we work in close cooperation with SAP, a prestigious German company.
 
We are an international consulting company headquartered in Germany, helping our clients to transform and grow their business. We are looking forward to hearing from you soon.

Created: 2011-09-08





            Fashion Writers Wanted          


Examiner.com, the fastest growing local content network in the nation, is looking for experienced online freelance writers (Examiners) to write. Examiners are passionate local insiders who come from all backgrounds but have two main traits in common - a lot of knowledge about a specific topic and solid writing ability.

DESCRIPTION:

We seek Examiners to write in our STYLE & FASHION category, focusing on one specific topic area, especially the following:

► Fashion Trends
► Celebrity Fashion
► DIY Fashion
► European Fashion
► Fashion Modeling
► Fashion Designers
► Fashion Scene
► Fashion Photography
► Project Runway Fashion
► Plus Size Fashion
► Reality TV Fashion
► Eco-Fashion
► Vintage Fashion

Examiners write from a local perspective in the third person. This generally includes tips and useful information on upcoming events, specials/deals/promotions, vendor and product reviews, interviews, reports on national or global issues relevant to the topic along with local resources, and other topic-related articles. Examiners work from home as independent contractors and set their own pace as far as when and how often they publish. Because the level of readership and earnings success is influenced by publishing frequency, those who publish at least 3 – 5 times a week tend to build a larger and more engaged audience.


This is the ideal opportunity for you if you relate to any of the following:

► I'm an aspiring writer. I've been blogging for some time now but my readership isn't where I'd like it to be and sometimes I wonder if anyone is reading my posts.

► I'm already an established professional writer and/or author and I want another writing outlet where I have more creative freedom and where I can develop my online writing skills.

► I already have a job but seek something fun and stimulating to do where I can also earn extra cash, network, meet active and smart people, and learn new tech and media skills.

► I've been unemployed and don't want a big gap on my resume, but am not able to commit to anything that will prevent me from continuing my job search.

► I want to make a career change. I know so much but am having difficulty showcasing my knowledge to recruiters and potential employers because I lack experience.

► I'm not a professional writer but I am a professional in my field. I love writing and am good at it. I'd love to share what I know with others, showcase my industry, and gain exposure as the local topic expert.

Created: 2011-09-10





            WordPress Blogger          


Honeymoon Destinations has just launched! We're seeking a team of bloggers to regularly contribute to the soon-to-be premier honeymoon planning site. We're looking for regular contributors who will be responsible for a specific column (see below).

Requirements:

1. Experience in the travel, technology, wedding or celebrity niche.
2. Ability to promote your posts via your own social network on Twitter and/or Facebook & actively interact with readers and other travel bloggers.
3. Will publish at least two times per week.
4. Can publish directly via Wordpress to our site (i.e., edit your own articles).
5. Willing to have a public profile, with author byline, picture and author bio.
6. Working knowledge of SEO copywriting.
7. A unique, fun voice and vibrant writing style.

We pay per post, as they are published. Pay is $20 per post. Posts should average 300 to 500 words and include a few pictures as well as relevant links. If you have a good idea for a longer post, we'll pay more - we'll discuss those on a case by case basis.

An additional success bonus will be paid if a post reaches a large number of tweets, comments and/or Facebook likes.

We are seeking to fill spots for the following columns:

- Travel Tech
- After the Wedding... (things to do once the wedding is over; a lifestyle-type column about being newlyweds)
- Budget Travel Tips
- Ask Jane (or whatever your name is - this will ask and answer questions, a la Dear Judy)
- Celebrity Weddings / Honeymoons
- Have another idea for a regular column? We'd love to hear it!

Created: 2011-09-01





            Writing About WebDesign,Social Media,Blogging: 50$ per article          


We are currently looking for highly skilled and talented content writers, who are experienced freelancers, web-graphic designers with good English knowledge. If you want to apply for this position, at first ask yourself these following questions?:

1. Are you madly passionate in what you are doing? Let it be web design, social media, marketing, typography, freelancing - but are you sure it's your life calling?
2. Have you caught yourself staying up late, not counting time - just because you wanted to learn latest coding tricks you found or reading other blogs?
3. Do you feel confident and experienced in what you're doing? Would you be able to teach others?

If you answered to those all 3 questions with yes - don't wait and send us a message! We would love to have you in our team!

Main skill we need here is PASSION, if you are passionate in what you're doing, then you'll understand this job is the best one you can possibly do, because you can learn all the time about your niche while writing and get amazing feedback and exposure from 1stwebdesigner readership! We have over 2 million monthly unique visitors - can you take it?

Skills required (summary):
- Previous experience as designer, freelancer, writer?
- Again and again - Passionate in what you're doing
- Good english writing skills
- Able to come up with creative,unique article topics, need to be up to date with latest news in design world.
- You need to be responsible against your tasks, be able to work in team and learn quickly ( internet world is changing rapidly, you need to be able to keep up with it).

To see what kind of content, articles and quality we require, visit our website http://www.1stwebdesigner.com and write to us!

We are paying 50$ per article!

Also I need one writer for my new site www.foundertips.com - somebody who would be capable and passionate in internet marketing, social media promotion, traffic building! Would love to see You join our friendly company!

Created: 2011-09-03





            Software Developer to create customizing photo cards website          


Budget: $1,000 to $2,500

I am looking for someone to develop some functionality on my site that allows customers to upload their own photos into my pre-designed photo card templates (Christmas cards, birth announcements, wedding save-the-dates, etc) similar to shutterfly.com and tinyprints.com.

Customers will need to have the ability to edit the text on a selected card to personalize it with a set list of fonts that I have put together. And when a customer does these modifications to personalize it, it will simultaneously be doing the same thing to the high-resolution, print-ready file stored on the server, so once they hit "Submit Order" it automatically sends me the file. From there I can then forward on to my printer. This way customers can see what any of my photo card designs would look like with their photo and greeting on it before ordering and more importantly, without me having to physically insert their photo into my design, change the greeting, get them a proof, do revisions, get them another proof with different photo, etc.
 
 The site would need to have an admin built as well that allows me to upload new designs and choose text/image areas for that particular card design and delete old designs if need be, keeping in mind that the number and position of photos on each card design will vary quite a bit and not always be perfect right angles. The cards will all be 5" x 7" or 7" x 5". I’d prefer it not be done in flash.

Created: 2011-09-04





            Software Developer to create customizing photo cards website          


Budget: $1,000 to $2,500

I am looking for someone to develop some functionality on my site that allows customers to upload their own photos into my pre-designed photo card templates (Christmas cards, birth announcements, wedding save-the-dates, etc) similar to shutterfly.com and tinyprints.com.

Customers will need to have the ability to edit the text on a selected card to personalize it with a set list of fonts that I have put together. And when a customer does these modifications to personalize it, it will simultaneously be doing the same thing to the high-resolution, print-ready file stored on the server, so once they hit "Submit Order" it automatically sends me the file. From there I can then forward on to my printer. This way customers can see what any of my photo card designs would look like with their photo and greeting on it before ordering and more importantly, without me having to physically insert their photo into my design, change the greeting, get them a proof, do revisions, get them another proof with different photo, etc.
 
 The site would need to have an admin built as well that allows me to upload new designs and choose text/image areas for that particular card design and delete old designs if need be, keeping in mind that the number and position of photos on each card design will vary quite a bit and not always be perfect right angles. The cards will all be 5" x 7" or 7" x 5". I’d prefer it not be done in flash.

Created: 2011-09-11





            Specialist Freelance Developer (Wordpress/CMS/Blog)          


Budget: $1,000 to $2,500

Group looking for a content programmer with wordpress/cms experience all associate plug ins. Also knowledge of HTML 5 would be helpful also.   Interested send information ,rates if you have them, and a few samples.

Created: 2011-09-02





            Are you a Linux Guru?          


Budget: $500 to $1,000

If you think you are, then this is the right place for you! We are a web company that develops in-house products and applications. We are currently developing  OS powered by Linux so we need developers who are responsible for:
- Custom Linux Builds  - Application Integration - Application Development - Software performance tuning

Skills:
· Project management and problem solving· Innovation and creative thinking· Being analytical and proactive· Ability to learn new technologies quickly·Documentation and information sharing· Good command of the English language

Requirements:
· 3-5 years Linux experience· Knowledge of varied kinds of Linux Distro (CentOS,Turnkey,Red Hat,Debian,etc)· A degree in Computer Science, IT or related courses is a plus· LPIC-3 (Linux Certification) is an advantage
Join our team and send your application now!

Created: 2011-09-07





            CTO for campaign to change tech policy          


We are a brand-new activist org aiming to improve the laws constraining tech (e.g. copyright) by shifting the public opinion that shapes these laws.  Think the EFF (http://eff.org) but more campaign-focused (also, more fun and viral).  This could be a dream job.Our organization is focused on developing high-impact campaigns that resonate with people and help them band together to exert their power. This role is central to the organization and its effectiveness. If you ever wanted to build online experiences that reach out, grab people, and help them them change the world, then this is the job for you.We need someone who can:

    Build software, particularly simple dynamic web applications
    Manage software and web projects
    Choose the perfect mix of products (CRM, scalable hosting, analytics) to power scalable, hassle-free online campaigning
    Be an awesome product/project manager, paying close attention to our process and systems and the quality of results
    Live in constant maniacal pursuit of the best tactics (from UX to talking points) through analytics and A/B testing

Ideally you’d have experience with all of these things, particularly refinement of a campaign or a product through analytics and A/B testing.  But if this listing caught your eye at all, be in touch.  We’re willing to consider people from a wide range of backgrounds and skill-sets for this position, especially if you have experience managing teams of contractors.This would be a great job for any developer or project manager who can tackle a heterogenous mix of projects with a single-minded drive.Your job will literally involve:

    Making millions of people happy
    Foiling villains
    Shaping the future of tech in ways no for-profit company can

You’ll go home satisfied.  The team will be 100% remote-—no need to commute or relocate.  We’d start working with you on a contract basis at your hourly rate, but we will be able to offer full-time position with competitive salary and benefits to the right person.If you’re interested, send us a note with a resume and as much relevant information as possible: significant things you’ve done, especially stuff related to the mix of abilities we’re looking for.  Being well-rounded is a plus, so don’t exclude significant skills or achievements just because they aren’t tech (e.g, if you’ve ever been an activist, let us know).

Created: 2011-09-03





            Web Hosting Company Website Redesign          


Budget: $1,000 to $2,500

We are a large webhosting company with an aging website in need of a redesign. We've got a programming team ready to go - but no designer! We need a rockstar freelancer who can create PSD mockups of a great looking new website and order form.

We'll provide the exact details as to what needs to be in the design, but first we want to find the right worker who has an attention to detail and wants to create something fresh.

Please email links to your portfolio or examples of your past work; we're looking to spend $1250 on designs for our main page, a sub page design, and an order form design.

Created: 2011-09-07






 





















  
Receive Job Updates in Your E-Mail Inbox



ENTER YOUR E-MAIL ADDRESS:












 
Terms of Use & Privacy Policy | Contact Us

© Copyright 2009 Savvy Talent Solutions. All rights reserved.




 



