DEATH TOLL OF TEXAS WILDFIRE RISES «  Protégé(e) Magazine





Protégé(e) Magazine





user area

search





Privacy PolicyTerms of ServiceWhat is Protégé(e) Magazine?CEO’s MessageContact Us!
















				FAIL (the browser should render some flash content, not this).

			






 Categories		 
Auto

Cinema

Fashion

Food

Helpful Hints & Tips

Levels of Success

News

Opportunity Pages

Parenting

Relationships

Travel


  Pages		 
CEO’s Message
Contact Us!
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
What is Protégé(e) Magazine?

   		
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


   Paypal		 



  






<<PRESIDENT OBAMA FACES G.O.P. HEAD ON
OBAMA ROLLS DICE WITH JOBS SPEECH>>




DEATH TOLL OF TEXAS WILDFIRE RISES

									September 7, 2011 7:05 pm | News 



BASTROP, TEXAS- With the onslaught of the recent wildfires raging across the state of Texas, more than 1,000 homes have been left completely consumed in fire and left to rubble and ash on the ground. Many firefighters have been pushed to the limit, and the devastation of the wildfire has escalated to a point that is very difficult to manage and contain. Just has he has been battling presidential candidate Mitt Romney for a position in the G.O.P. run, Gov. Rick Perry has to return to his home state in order to address the issue head on. The flare of the fire has left many injured and four people dead since it’s start.
More than 45 square miles were burned across the state due to the winds brought on by tropical storm Lee’s fury that drenched the gulf and a couple southern states over the weekend. With tools and staff at a personal low, many other firefighters and firefighting tools and vehicles have been brought in from other states to combat the blaze that has engulf a majority of the lone star state. The year-long drought that has been associated with the fire, is what officials say is the primary cause of the disaster.
More than 180 wildfires have exploded across the state in the last couple of days, and experts do not know exactly how much longer the blaze will continue. Out of state firefighters and Texan firefighters alike will give it all they’ve got to destroy the flames that have consumed much of the state.
The Philosophy:
Well well, somebody call Burt Lancaster as the “Rainman” and hope that he can make it trickle down from the sky above. Not to try to sound sarcastic, but it seems that not all that is bigger is better, and size does matter. Texas is one of the largest states in the nation, and the old saying is that everything is bigger in Texas. In this case that argument seems more detrimental than advantageous. Controlling wildfires is a hard task, but the state of California has been doing that for quite some time now, and they are pretty advanced with concerns regarding it. Although, California in the Northern region, is not the warmest like Texas is mostly around the table. I hope it can be contained soon, and controlled to the best of everyone’s ability.
-Justin Gibson 
Share/Bookmark






									This entry was posted
																		on Wednesday, September 7th, 2011 at 7:05 pm									and is filed under News.
									You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
																			You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
																	





Leave a Reply



Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website












 








Protégé(e) Magazine is proudly powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS)









 










