2010  September | Fire Special Operations
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Fire Special Operations


About
Cheat Sheets
Training
Documents
Technology
Links






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Railcar Relief Valve Releases Isobutane in PA
No comments









A passerby in Green Tree Township, PA noticed an odor  coming from the railcars and called 911.  Responders including fire, hazmat, and emergency services responded to investigate.  It was determined a relief valve, on a car carrying isobutane, likely went off.  A MC 331 tank truck was called in, and the product was transfered from the rail car to the truck.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 22, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, hazmat
		• Tagged: hazardous materials, hazmat, hazmat team, isobutane, MC 331, rail car, relief valve, transfer 


Gasoline Tanker Tire Fire….I hope the tank is full
No comments







Firegeezer.com had a some great pics and videos of gasoline tank truck fires in Houston and Boyton Beach, Florida. The Boyton Beach incident is a great case study of a tire/break fire in a MC 306/DOT 406 (gasoline tanker truck).
In cases like this, it can be a huge tactical benefit that the tanker is FULL of product! (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 13, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighting-operations, fires, hazmat
		• Tagged: DOT 406, flammable liquid, foam, fuel fire, gasoline fire, gasoline tanker, MC 306, tanker fire 


Workers Critical After Beam Collapse at Yale University
1 comment






PHOTO BY THOMAS MACMILLAN
Two workers are in critical, and a third in serious condition after a steel beam collapsed at a building under construction on the Yale University campus. (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 13, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: air bags, Collapse, collapse rescue team, rescue, shoring, special-operations, task force, US&R, USAR, Yale Universtiy 


Santa Barbara County Hazmat Responds to White Powder
No comments






Firefighters Conduct a Level B Entry.  
Tuesday morning, the Santa Maria, California Fire Department responded to the American Automobile Association office in Santa Maria, after an employee reported finding a white powdery substance inside the envelope.
After arriving on scene, fire officials evacuated the office and called the Santa Barbara County Hazardous Materials Response team, which arrived around 1 p.m.
By 3:30 p.m., they were able to determine that the substance was not hazardous.  What exactly the substance is, or where it came from, has yet to be determined





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on September 8, 2010 •
		Filed under: command-leadership, ems-topics, hazmat, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: hazmat, special-operations, white powder 
 




 








New Up Loads
3/7/10 - Two crush syndrome EMS treatment protocols added to the Document page.   
2/28/10 - IED Stand Off Distance card added to the Cheat Sheet page


Current US Threat Level 




Homeland Security Live Alert

 State Urban Search & Rescue
Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011TrainingRe: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011
 Homeland Security News
Threats posted on White House Facebook pagePolice Meet Plane At Detroit Metro Airport911 Video – Remembering What We SawSouthwest Flight Diverted Over Suspicious PassengerTravelers Interviewed in 9/11 Terror Probe


Recent Comments
web design bangalore on Ohio Derailment Caused Brief Evacuation.Gav-070406 on Crush Syndrome…The Smiling DeathBLS Certification on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.Arrugha on Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!tArrugha on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.


 Sponsors
 
 



Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				



















