Red Strat Land | A travelling blog



Red Strat Land





 





Pages 
Contact
DMCA Policy
Privacy

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011


Search for:



  Recent Posts 
Mark Sanchez – NFL Rookie Or Jets Savior?
Mark Sanchez boosts funds for groups of 9/11 sufferers with new T-shirt
Wife pays tribute to Spartacus star Andy Whitfield who died in Sydney from non-Hodgkin lymphoma
Advertising Executive Uses Music To Mark 9/11 Anniversary
Cowboys vs. Jets: Tony Romo Will Prove He Isn’t Elite Qb vs. Jets

 





 
 

Mark Sanchez – NFL Rookie Or Jets Savior?




 
In the 2008 season, mark Sanchez stepped up into the role as the dominant college quarterback people have come to expect out of Southern Cal. he began the season strong as he torched a supposedly dominant Ohio State team in week 2 for 4 touchdowns.Leading his team to the Rose Bowl, Sanchez brushed aside another strong big Ten opponent as the Trojans dismantled Penn State with 413 yards passing and 4 more touchdowns.His junior season was a coming out party, but his early entry to the NFL draft was questioned by his USC coach Pete Carroll. Carroll wrote that Sanchez was going against the odds and implied that Sanchez did not have a complete body of work with his lone complete season as the Trojan starter.The controversy appeared that Carroll’s actions at the January press conference were more of a recruiting ploy to encourage more of his NFL ready athletes to remain in the program for as long as possible. or maybe he genuinely felt that mark Sanchez would legitimately have a tough transition to the pros. either way, it was inevitable, Sanchez would challenge at the professional level.Mark Sanchez may be challenging the process as his former coach would go on to say, but there are reasons why Pete Carroll didn’t want him to go to the draft; He’d be losing a hell of a quarterback.Sanchez became extremely close to leading the Trojans to another undefeated season (minus the road loss to Oregon State where Sanchez played admirably to bring the Trojans back, nearly winning the game).He demonstrated extraordinary toughness coming back from a knee injury at the beginning of the ’08 season to lead the Trojans with 34 Touchdowns to only 10 interceptions.The record of USC Quarterbacks in the pros does not currently bode well for Sanchez (Palmers injuries, Leinart struggles behind Warner, Booty 3rd string in Minnesota). yet coming out early did not hurt his draft stock, chosen 5th, or the expectations that the Jets have put on him in replacing Brett Favre and becoming the future-face of the franchise. What makes his situation complicated is the good battle going on between Sanchez and Kellen Clemens for the starting job.A little competition should help both quarterbacks, but Sanchez could get discouraged if he isn’t named the starter immediately. he has a good downfield throwing arm and a more professional mentality than Matt Leinart, but he would not want to fall behind the 26 year old Clemens on the depths chart.The battle rages on, but many tip Sanchez to win and show Pete Carroll that maybe it wasn’t such a bad decision to head to the NFL.


Do you have any comments or concerns? Contact us!Be sure to read our DMCA Policy




Mark Sanchez boosts funds for groups of 9/11 sufferers with new T-shirt

By Jenny Vrentas/The Star-Ledger William Perlman/The Star-LedgerJets quarterback Mark Sanchez, now a captain in the third season, will lead the Jets from the Dallas Cowboys tonight within their season opener at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford.By Jenny Vrentas/The Star-Ledger William Perlman/The Star-LedgerJets quarterback Mark Sanchez, now a captain in the third season, will lead the … Continue reading





Wife pays tribute to Spartacus star Andy Whitfield who died in Sydney from non-Hodgkin lymphoma

ANDY Whitfield, the 39-year-old star of the "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" series, has died in Sydney. The 39-year-old Whitfield died yesterday morning of non-Hodgkin lymphoma."On a beautiful sunny Sydney spring morning, surrounded by his family, in the arms of his loving wife, our beautiful young warriorAndy Whitfieldlost his 18 month battle with lymphoma cancer," his … Continue reading





Advertising Executive Uses Music To Mark 9/11 Anniversary

MYFOXNY.COM - For decades, Harry Spero helped bring songwriters' words to lilfe as an executive at Midland International Records. After the terror attacks of 9/11, he used his inner voice to spread  his own sounds of 'rebirth.' MyFoxNY.com spoke with Spero-- now president of Spero Media with clients such as the NY Mets, NY Jets … Continue reading





Cowboys vs. Jets: Tony Romo Will Prove He Isn’t Elite Qb vs. Jets

Hannah Foslien/Getty Images The opinions about Tony Romo always vary wildly and are often very strong. There is one school of thought that says that Romo is one of the big reasons the Cowboys haven't won much of anything in the last few seasons.Others feel that Romo is just on the cusp of being an … Continue reading





Huerta was archdiocese accountant, CCD teacher

Debra Huerta, a grassroots leader for her Beacon Hill neighborhood and a catechism teacher for her beloved parish, St. Ann Catholic Church, died Tuesday after a six-year battle with breast cancer. The accountant for the Archdiocese of San Antonio was 49. “She was just amazing in everything she did,” her brother Juan Huerta said. “She … Continue reading





NFL Predictions Week 1: Why Tony Romo Will Lead Cowboys over New York Jets

Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images Tony Romo and also the Dallas Cowboys will always be the main attraction, that is what happens when you're America's team. However, this year the Cowboys are flying a little individually distinct, which might be a blessing in disguise.After an abysmal season this year, with most of this due to Tony Romo's … Continue reading





Inside the Panthers: Panthers’ Jerry Richardson to Cam Newton: No tattoos, piercings

« Beason undergoes surgery on Achilles; consecutive games streak in jeopardy? | Main| Thursday's Carolina Panthers links » Panthers' Jerry Richardson to Cam Newton: No tattoos, piercings You heard it first from Tom Sorensen, but Panthers' owner Jerry Richardson shared his guide for personal grooming -- at least as how they apply to rookie quarterback … Continue reading





Tampa Bay Bucs drop season-opener to Detroit Lions 27-20

Detroit Lions – Tampa Bay Buccaneers Game Thread & Inactives: Football's Back!The Bucs bounced right back, interjection to Sammie Stroughter's 78-yard kickoff lapse to a Lions 21. The Bucs gained usually 1 back yard in 3 plays, however, environment up Connor Barth's 38-yard flog to tie a measure during 3-3. Tampa Bay took a initial … Continue reading





The Associated Press: Colts face decision on Manning within 2 weeks

Colts face decision on Manning within 2 weeksBy MICHAEL MAROT, AP Sports Writer–Aug 26, 2011 INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Peyton Manning could be back on the active roster in the next two weeks.If not, the Colts will have to play the first six games without the four-time MVP.League rules require players on the physically unable to perform … Continue reading






Older posts >>







				© 2011 
					Red Strat Land				








