   Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes · Hot Trends & News Today



Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes
at Hot Trends & News Today












Feedjit Live Blog Stats





« SOA repository, built quickly and on a low budget
 SOA respository, built quickly and on a low budget »


Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes

 
BASTROP, Texas—One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.
More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee’s winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 45 square miles, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people,

Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday. ((AP Photo/San Antonio Express-News, William Luther))
bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four.
“We lost everything,” said Willie Clements, whose two-story colonial home in a housing development near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames.
On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, “United We Stand.”
“This is the beginning of our new family album,” the 51-year-old Clements said.
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, which is about 25 miles from Austin.
“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,” he said. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.”
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening’s Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was “substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of.” But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email

David Courtney, front and his friends take all of his valuables from his home as changing winds bring a wildfire closer, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday. ( AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Nick de la Torre) MANDATORY CREDIT (David Courtney, front and his friends take all of his valuables from his home as changing winds bring a wildfire closer, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Montgomery County, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across r)
later in the day that Perry planned to be there.
Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being putting to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze.
“It’s more difficult than it should be to get those types of assets freed up by the federal government,” Perry said. “When you’ve got people hurting, when you’ve got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don’t care who the asset belongs to. If it’s sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the

Fire damage is seen in an aerial image taken over the wildfires in the Bastrop, Texas area Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday. ((AP Photo/San Antonio Express-News, William Luther))
solution, that’s a problem.”
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and “we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires.”
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from such places as Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.
Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of

Car collector John Chapman surveys the losses at his home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Chapman lost more than 175 cars to the wildfires. ((AP Photo/Eric Gay))
scooping 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.
“We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,” said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas’ yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze

Garrett Quinn sprays water on hot spots at a neighbors home that burned when wildfires swept through the area, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday. ((AP Photo/Eric Gay))
in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. At least six homes were lost in a fire 40 percent contained. In far Northeast Texas’ Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.
Many of the buildings destroyed in the Bastrop fire were modest, single-story homes in housing developments. Others were expensive ranch homes, set off by themselves.
In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. Some homes survived; others were gone.
The Postal Service delivered mail to homes that had burned to the ground; only the mailboxes were left stand.
Residents were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods.
“We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this,” said Dave Wilhelm, who lives just east of Bastrop. “All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left.”
Wilhelm returned on Tuesday to find his neighbor’s house and three vehicles gone. Some of his children’s backyard toys were destroyed, but the Wilhelm house was spared.
“Some stuff is smoldering on the lot behind us,” he said. “Inside of the house, we smell like a campfire. We’re definitely very lucky.”
John Chapman’s home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.
As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a ’57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: “You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.”
“The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I’m not going to worry about it,” he said.
For Perry, the crisis carries both opportunity and risk, said Todd Harris, a Republican consultant who has worked on a number of presidential campaigns.
“It gives Perry an opportunity to demonstrate leadership, to demonstrate decisiveness and at the same time empathy and caring, which are four qualities that most voters look for in a president,” Harris said.
But he added: “You can’t do anything that looks sounds, or smells even remotely political. If it looks like you are taking advantage of a disaster and trying to use it for political purposes, it will backfire and you’ll be worse off than if you hadn’t done anything.”
About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
“The first night, we had a child 17 months old,” she said. “We didn’t have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal.”
———
Also contributing to this story were AP reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop. Michael Graczyk reported from Houston.


View full post on bastrop texas – Yahoo! News Search Results


						This entry was posted
						 
						on Wednesday, September 7th, 2011 at 1:51 am						and is filed under Hot News.
						You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. 
						
													You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
						
												
					



 


Leave a Reply


Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website










 Related News
Integrated Controls Solution Fuels Opportunity For Florida Turbine Engineering Company September 12, 2011Turbine Technology Services Corporation (TTS), a full-service gas turbine engineering services firm based in Orlando, Florida, is making waves in the  […]Telegraph 1000: Impatient entrepreneurs are not the answer September 11, 2011While economic growth remains sluggish at best, it is very tempting to look for the heroes who will lead the growth charge. And where better to look t […]Telegraph 1000: Britain's Brightest Businesses September 11, 2011A celebration of the 1,000 mid-sized companies which have weathered the economic storm and are set to be the foundation of the UK's recovery […]Charlton and Trounson impress on the BMW S 1000 RR at Winton September 9, 2011Scott Charlton, riding the team Aluma-Lite BMW S 1000 RR in the Winton round of the Yamaha Formula Extreme Superbike Championship, made an impressive  […]Bats 1000 Index Down 1.7% on Week All Ten Sectors Decline, Financials Off 2.4% September 9, 2011BATS Global Markets, a global stock market operator, reports the BATS 1000SM Index declined 1.7% for the trading week ending September 9. The S&P  […]How to Max Out Your Windows Performance for $1000 September 9, 2011You can't hit 7.9--the top score in the Windows Experience Index--without a load of expensive hardware, but you can get very close. Here's h […]The State Worker: SEIU Local 1000 to consider six-figure salaries for officers September 8, 2011SEIU Local 1000 President Yvonne Walker would receive three times her current wages under a new executive pay proposal that the union's statewide […]1000 Matches And Counting: Rogerio Ceni's extraordinary achievement is testament to a Brazilian hero (Goal.com) September 8, 2011To honor an incredible milestone, Goal.com dedicates 1000 words to a man whose loyalty and longevity are almost unmatched in the game's history,  […]Texas bushfires destroy 1000 homes September 6, 2011More than 1000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas. […]Embraer's Lineage 1000 Receives Validation From CAAC September 5, 2011Type Certificate Paves The Way For The Aircraft's Entry To The Chinese Executive Aviation Market Embraer's ultra-large Lineage 1000 executiv […]
Popular Search Terms
枝野 寝ろ CNNwhat school does rebecca black go toroselyn sanchezhow did rebecca black get famousnuclear reactorFisher Investments MarketMinder
Recent Search Terms
pia toscanodancing with the starsbellesa latina 2011Heather Morris
SEO Booster PRO
finalistas de nuestra belleza latina 2011www.nuestrabellesalatina.comhelen mirren hotsister wives homes in nevada
Tags
2011
after
American Idol
Amp
Barack Obama
Bieber
Black
blog
Charlie Sheen
Cnn
Daily
Dies
Espn
Facebook
Fans
From
Game
Getty Images
Google
Google News
Justin
Justin Bieber
Lady Gaga
live
Love
Nbsp
News
News Search
Obama
over
Rebecca
Rebecca Black
Reuters
Selena Gomez
Show
Times
Tweet
Tweets
Twitter
Video
World
Yahoo
Yahoo News
Yahoo Search
Youtube



 



2010 Hot Trends News
 






















