lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2011 » August






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Tuesday, August 30, 2011
Wacom Inkling

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:03 am 
 


Wacom is the venerable maker of pressure sensitive tablets and styli that have been the standard for digital artists for many years. My understanding is that the name is a combination of “wa”, from a Japanese word meaning harmony, and “com” from computer, meaning a device that puts one in harmony with a computer.
They make several lines of products — their industry standard Intuos line of professional tablets, of which I have been a dedicated user in one form or another for over 15 years, their newer consumer oriented line of Bamboo tablets and touchpads and their high end Cintiq models. The latter incorporate computer displays in the tablet to allow for drawing directly on the screen.
To these lines (and their smaller items like the Bamboo stylus for iPad) they are adding a new product called Inkling,  a “digital sketch pen”. 
This is a ballpoint pen that incorporates some electronics and is accompanied by a small receiver box that clips onto the top of a sketchbook or drawing pad, allowing the user to draw with the familiar tool of ink on paper and simultaneously have that drawing stored electronically as a digital image for later download to a computer.
There have been other “digital pens” that perform a similar function, but this is the first to offer pressure sensitivity, that quality in traditional digital drawing tablets that allows artists to vary the line weight (and often other characteristics of a stroke) with the amount of pressure applied to the pen. It also provides the ability for artists to add “layers” to the digital file, so that different parts of the drawing can be easily separated out on the computer.
The digital image can be downloaded to a computer via USB and into the Wacom software provided. The included Sketch Manager software can transform the lines into vector paths or leave them as a bitmap. The files can then be exported into Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and other  common applications used by digital artists.
This is obviously meant to accommodate quick sketches and rough drawings as opposed to the more finished work one would do directly on the computer with a tablet and graphics software, but it should be a welcome addition to the digital artist arsenal, and perhaps spread the appeal of digital drawing to those more comfortable with traditional drawing tools. 
One of the barriers traditional artists face when starting to use a pressure sensitive tablet is getting used to drawing while looking at the screen instead of one’s hand, which takes a little getting used to. This is certainly a less expensive way around that than the deluxe Cintiq models.
The Inkling digital sketchpen retails for $199.00 U.S.D., and should be available in mid September. 
In addition to the Wacom product page, there is an introductory video on YouTube.
(The product page link given is for the Americas; see the general Wacom site for links to other world regions.)


Link: Wacom Inkling, (Americas)
Wacom Inkling video trailer (YouTube)

Posted in:  Tools and Techniques   |   18 Comments »


Monday, August 29, 2011
Jason Scheier

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:25 pm 
 


Jason Scheier is a visual development artist and concept designer based in Pasadena, California.  His clients include DreamWorks Animation SKG, NBC Universal, Anonymous Content, Honda Automotive, General Electric and DreamWorks Feature Films.
The images on his website gallery have names, though they don’t include references to the projects for which they were designed. Scheier’s focus is on environments and landscapes, sometimes realistic, often wildly imaginative. 
His digital renderings feature carefully controlled color palettes and richly textured surfaces. His gallery even includes examples of digital plein air painting (images above, third from bottom) which have a nicely painterly look.
Scheier is also in instructor at the Los Angeles Academy of Figurative Art where he is teaching an Imaginative Process Seminar on September 13.


Link: www.jasonscheier.com
Jason Scheier at LAAFA

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   3 Comments »



The Floods at Port Marly – Alfred Sisley

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:46 pm 
 


Impressionist painter Alfred Sisley (one of my favorites and in my opinion underrated) was more than any of the other French Impressionists devoted to the depiction of water, streams and in particular, the Seine River.
Sisley painted several canvasses of the flooding of the Seine at Port Marly in 1872 and 1876. The three paintings here, showing the water covering the streets, were painted in 1876 in the same location. You can see a current photograph and map of the location here. 
Sisley has painted the flood almost as if it were the natural state of the town or the river, without drama, just his even straightforward take on the scene as a landscape painter.
The first two paintings are in the Musée d’Orsay here and here. The bottom painting is in the Musées de Rouen.
A Google image search will turn up a number of larger versions of the images, in an astonishing range of colors, as will a search on Flickr. 
I’ve tried to correct these a bit, based not on recently having viewed the originals (unfortunately) but on my exposure to other paintings by Sisley, and my experience with incorrect color shifting of images posted on the web, even by the museums that house the originals in many cases.
My notion for this post came from Katherine Tyrrell’s post about Sisley’s other paintings of the flooded Seine.


Link: Sisley's Port Marly floods at Musée d'Orsay and here
Musées de Rouen
My previous post on Alred Sisley

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Sunday, August 28, 2011
JVJ Publishing

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:28 am 
 


Classic illustration enthusiasts were dismayed a while back to learn of the apparent demise of Bud Plant Illustrated books, a long-time collaboration between Jim Vadeboncoeur Jr. and Bud Plant that was a key source of out of print books about great classic illustrators and comics artists.
The good news turned out to be that Vadeboncoeur and Plant have simply taken their individual contributions into their own separate spaces, where they have been able to refocus their efforts. 
Plant is selling a more focused selection of books at the new Bud’s Art Books site and Vadeboncoeur has retooled the venerable bpib.com web address as JVJ Publishing, featuring his absolutely beautiful magazines ImageS and Black & White ImageS, which I have raved about previously (and here).
In addition, Vadeboncoeur is continuing to maintain his terrific resource of classic illustrator biographies (image at left), which is one of the first places I look when researching a classic illustrator. The biographies are short, succinct and information and illustration dense.
Vadeboncoeur has been an important voice in the promotion of great classic illustration from the late 19th and early 20th centuries, from artists both well known and undeservedly obscure. One of the joys of ImageS magazine is the mixture of the familiar and unfamiliar; even devoted classic illustration aficionados will frequently be introduced to long lost gems by unfamiliar names. 
Vadeboncoeur’s enthusiasm for great classic illustration and his obsessive attention to reproduction quality and image details make every issue of ImageS a treat. 
Part of the good news about his recent makeover of the JVJ Publishing site is the inclusion of much larger preview images of the more recent issues, giving you a better taste of the issue’s contents (click on the covers for the pop-up previews). I have to stress, though, that they still don’t provide a realistic picture of the superb image quality of the issues themselves.
The first five issues of ImageS are sold out; issues 6 through 12 are still available. The first issue of ImageS Black & White is sold out; issues 2 through 5 are available.
(Images above: Lejaren A. Hiller, J.C. Leyendecker, Julius Diez, Frank Godwin, Henri-Jules-Ferdinand Bellery-Desfontaines)


Link: http://bpib.com
ImageS
Black & White ImageS
JVJ classic illustrator biographies
Bud's Art Books
My previous post about ImageS, and here

Posted in:  Illustration,Pen & Ink   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, August 27, 2011
The tempests of Ivan Aivazovsky

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:39 pm 
 


Those of us on the Eastern Seaboard of the U.S. are either experiencing or bracing for the impact of Hurricane Irene, the outer bands of which are starting to drop heavy rain and whip up heavier winds here in Philadelphia as I write.
It put me in mind of the storm paintings of Russian (Crimean) painter Ivan Aivazovsky whose prolific oeuvre of marine paintings included many of roiling tempests and shipwrecks.
Many of these are from the WikiPaintings site, which usually has fairly large versions of the images. For more, see my previous post on Ivan Aivazovsky, which includes several other image resources.


Link: Ivan Aivazovsky on WikiPaintings
My previous post on Ivan Aivazovsky

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »


Thursday, August 25, 2011
Dan Hipp

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:03 am 
 


Illustrator and comics artist Dan Hipp has clients that include Real Simple, Wired, DC Comics, Image Comics and Random House.  
When not working on professional assignments, and/or training to survive the zombie apocalypse, Hipp fills his blog with his wonderfully colorful, energetic and in-your-face drawings of characters from comics, movies, games and other aspects of pop culture.
His takes on the characters are usually wacky and imaginative, including mashups and routine zombifications, and are often hilarious. I particularly enjoy his mash-up Tintin covers, in which Tintin meets Ridley Scott’s alien or becomes Han Solo. 
Hipp employs large areas of bright but almost monochromatic color, against which smaller passages of contrasting color shine out. He embellishes his linework with areas of darks or textures and cranks it all up to 10 with his great sense of comic exaggeration.
You can browse his blog or Tumblr as well as his Flickr stream.
Unfortunately his limited edition collection Mr. Hip Strikes! is sold out, but you can still purchase some of the comics he has worked on, and, at some unspecified point in the (hopefully near) future you will be able to purchase his new book, Stray Days.
Who Watches the Watchmen, indeed.
[Via MetaFilter]


Link: http://mrhipp.blogspot.com
http://mrhipp.tumblr.com
www.flickr.com/photos/zombiehipp/

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, August 24, 2011
Rembrandt and the Face of Jesus

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:56 pm 
 


For as long as I’ve been visiting the Philadelphia Museum of Art there has been a small painting called “Head of Christ” (image above, top) in the museum’s  John G. Johnson collection of European Art (larger but somewhat oversaturated version here). 
It is a small but strikingly beautiful painting, 14 x 12 inches (36 x 31 cm) showing a head and upper torso of a plainly garbed figure, clothing almost fading into the unadorned background, but focusing on a face, obviously that of a real person and not constructed from imagination, painted with exquisite skill.
For a long time the painting was not featured prominently, often tucked away in the corner of a gallery in a modest frame, presumably because its attribution was somewhat in question — at times to “Studio of Rembrandt”, later “Attributed to Rembrandt”. It’s only recently (and I’m not sure how recently) that the attribution has changed to  “Rembrandt Harmensz. van Rijn”, making it the only painting directly attributed to Rembrandt in the museum’s collection.
Even when the attribution was in question, many visitors, myself included, just loved this painting. If it isn’t a Rembrandt, my thought was, it’s the next best thing, a work painted with such skill as to be considered for attribution to the master, and one with an extraordinary subtlety, economy and painterly finesse. The fact that it was often tucked away in an unassuming corner just made it seem that much more of a hidden gem.
Though I haven’t heard it confirmed, it’s my guess that it was the change in attribution that led the museum, in cooperation with the Musée du Louve in Paris and the Detroit Institute of Arts, to mount a new exhibition now on display here in Philadelphia titled Rembrandt and the Face of Jesus. 
The exhibition is essentially built around a core display of this painting and six other similar bust-length portraits of comparable size and composition, some attributed directly to Rembrandt, others to the “Studio of”, but all shedding light on and enriching the experience of appreciating the others (images above, third, fourth and fifth down, with detail 6th down). 
These have been borrowed from museums in Europe and the US, but the Philadelphia painting is the centerpiece, and the most striking of the group. I was also particularly impressed with this one (image above fourth and fifth down).
Expanding out from there, the exhibition is filled out with paintings, etchings and drawings, both by the master, his students and other artists who painted related portraits of Jesus, into an exhibition of  40 some works. It explores the changing interpretation by Rembrandt and others of the way Jesus was portrayed, something that had been bound by certain conventions, many of which Rembrandt broke by using live models and portraying Jesus as a real individual instead of an idealized icon.
The exhibit highlights this with some earlier examples by other artists but quickly moves into Rembrandt’s own groundbreaking interpretations. Though the exhibition is focused on this theme, and is far from a Rembrandt retrospective, it contains several striking works. 
The Louvre contributes its wonderful painting of the the Supper at Emmaus (above, bottom two images). The tablecloth alone in this work struck me as a capsule defense of Rembrandt as one of history’s greatest painters. The reproduction from the Louvre feature on the exhibit, though not bad, still doesn’t to it justice. 

There are also some wonderful examples of Rembrandt drawings (including this nimble sketch of Da Vinci’s Last Supper) and etchings in the show. Among the latter are two versions of Rembrandt’s famous etching “Jesus Healing the Sick”, commonly known as “The Hundred Guilder Print” for the extraordinary price it commanded in Rembrandt’s day. Surely one of the finest and most important etchings in Western art, this print exists in at least a hundred versions. 
Not only can the individual prints (or “pulls”) from the same etching plate vary between “states” (versions of the plate that may have had lines added or darkened by the artist over time), but printmakers (in particular Rembrandt) can create a variety of effects in the way and degree to which ink is wiped from the plate before running it through the press. 
The exhibition has two versions of the print on display, a darker one in which the foreground is more completely in shadow and the figures are more dramatically revealed in Rembrandt’s mastery of chiaroscuro, and a lighter, more delicate version, which I prefer. But the real treat is getting to compare the two. 
Unfortunately, I don’t have crisp image of the latter; you can see it briefly in the video that runs in a small room in the exhibition (online here, scroll down) that demonstrates the process, along with the difference between etching and drypoint.
In addition to that video, the PMA has a few features on their site with work from the exhibition (though not nearly enough). On this page there are two slideshows, and another two here. The slideshow under “Breaking with Tradition” on the latter page shows eight of the heads of Christ that form the central focus of the exhibition.
The Louvre’s feature on the exhibit is distinctly better and includes many high resolution images of works from the show (though the images of the paintings tend to be a bit dark and oversaturated).
Rembrandt and the Face of Jesus, having already been on display at the Louvre earlier this year, is now on view at the Philadelphia Museum of Art until October 30, 2011 (requires scheduled tickets); it then moves to the Detroit Institute of Arts, where it will be on display from November 20, 2011 to February 12, 2012.
It seems fitting that Rembrandt, so often fascinated with the commonplace and common people in his personal drawings, should be the one to bring the touch of reality to the face of Jesus.


Link: Rembrandt and the Face of Jesus, at PMA to 10/30/11
Online feature the Louvre (show ended 18 July, 2011)
Detroit Institute of Arts, 11/20/11 - 2/12/12
Review on The Art Blog
Philly.com, and here
Delaware Online
Time Magazine
Art Knowledge News
Head of Christ at PMA (zoomable)
The Hundred Guilder Print, Rijksmuseum
RembrandtPainting.net, excellent Rembrandt resource

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   8 Comments »


Monday, August 22, 2011
Cartoon Color Wheel

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:27 pm 
 


Here’s a fun notion; the Slate Magazine blog, Culturebox, has put together an interactive color wheel of cartoon characters arranged by their hue (and, correctly enough, by intensity, as indicated by our grayish friends at the center of the wheel).
In the original, you can mouse over the characters for identification. 
[Via Cartoon Brew]


Link: Cartoon Color Wheel on Slate

Posted in:  Amusements,Cartoons,Color   |   2 Comments »


Sunday, August 21, 2011
Femke Hiemstra

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:04 am 
 


Dutch artist Femke Hiemstra paints her richly detailed and wonderfully textural paintings of animals (anthropomorphic and otherwise), odd characters and fantastical landscapes on found objects. Her odd shaped “canvases” are the covers of old books, wooden holy water fonts and antique wooden panels.
Her mixed media pieces also include typography, sometimes completing the illusion that the antique book on the surface of which she is painting, for example, is a real but very different book.
Hiemstra studied illustration at the School of Arts in Utrecht and “Illustration and Visualizing” at the School of Graphic Arts in Amsterdam, where she currently lives and works.
Her mixed media technique includes thin layers of acrylic and water, colored pencils and sometimes chalk and oil crayons. 
Heimstra is part of a three person show at Merry Karnowsky Gallery that is on view until August 27, 2011.
[Via beinArt Collective]


Link: www.femtasia.nl
Merry Karnowsky Gallery, to 8/27/11
Hi-Frictose
Roq La Rue Gallery

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, August 20, 2011
Augustin Lesage

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:50 pm 
 


Augustin Lesage was a French painter associated with “outsider art” (L’Art Brut), art created outside of normal cultural definitions.
A coal miner from the age of 14, Lesage supposedly heard a voice deep in the mine say “One day you’ll be a painter!”, followed by a succession of other voices, some of which he took to be the voice of his sister Mary, who died at the age of three. 
He began with “automatic drawing”, a practice the Surrealists employed to produce art directly form the subconscious, but one also associated with communicating with the departed by spiritualists. He moved from there into painting, guided by the voices, and began to produce large scale canvasses in which he explored kalidoscopic images, repetitions of surface patterns and themes of spiritualism and symbolism.
Most of the images in this post, and those in many of the resources I list below, came from shawna-bo-bonna’s Flickr stream.
The two images above, bottom, which are both titled A symbolic Composition of the Spiritual World but were done two years apart, became the inspiration for animations created in 2010 by Max Hattler (see my previous post 1923 aka Heaven and 1925 aka Hell by Max Hattler). 


Link: L'Art Brut: Augustin Lesage on Tartuffe's Folly
translinguistic other
shawna-bo-bonna Flickr stream
But It Does Float
Collection Art Brut (FR)
Gravel and Gold
Cosmic Machine
Tooth and Claw
Tumblr
Artnet
Wikipedia bio (FR), Google Translate English
My previous post: 1923 aka Heaven and 1925 aka Hell by Max Hattler

Posted in:  Outsider Art   |   1 Comment »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






