2011  September | Morning in Arizona




Home
About



Morning in Arizona
Arizona: Open for Business





LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul
I’m in Tampa, FL for the CNN-Tea Party Express Republican Presidential Debate. The debate begins at 8pm on CNN. I’ll be on WSB Radio from 5pm to 7pm doing a “pre-game” show and then, starting at 7pm, I’ll be on CNN the rest of the night. When the debate starts, Michele Bachmann intends to join [...]




Morning Briefing for September 12, 2011
RedState Morning Briefing For September 12, 2011 Go to www.RedStateMB.com to getthe Morning Briefing every morning at no charge. 1. LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul 2. Where’s the new [stimulus] bill Mr. Obama? 3. The American Jobs Act of 2011: Lather, Rinse, Repeat and Fail. 4. Good News: Oil Drilling Off [...]


PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.
PPP spells it out, and it’s good news for Republican Bob Turner. Turner’s winning in a heavily Democratic district for two reasons: a huge lead with independents and a large amount of crossover support.  He’s ahead by 32 points at 58-26 with voters unaffiliated with either major party.  And he’s winning 29% of the Democratic [...]


Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!
President Barack Obama: Pass this jobs bill — pass this jobs bill, and starting tomorrow, small businesses will get a tax cut if they hire new workers or if they raise workers’ wages. The bill has not been written yet. Valerie Jarrett, senior White House adviser: Congress should pass this bill right now. Again, the [...]


NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14
GUESTS:   GOP CORPORATION  COMMISSION CANDIDATES      Location: Appaloosa Public Library 7377 E. Silverstone Drive, Scottsdale, AZ 85255 (Near intersection of North Scottsdale and East Pinnacle Peak) Date: Wednesday, Sept. 14, 2011 (2nd Wed of Month) Time: 6:45 – 7:00 pm Meet & Greet.  Meeting from 7:00 – 8:15 pm The PAChyderm Coalition is a Reagan Republic organization. [...]


The Unintended Consequences of Labor Secretary Hilda Solis’ Witch Hunt
In less than two weeks, on September 21st, the public comment period will be closing on a Department of Labor scheme to have employers report the amount of money paid to outside vendors (namely, attorneys, PR firms, website developers, video firms, polling firms and just about every type of communications and human resource consultant) as [...]


9/11 2101: AZ Republic attempts to skew 100 years in future
 “Blame America Firsters” hard at work at dying newspaper Today’s Repulsive (the daily dispenser of left-leaning skew) featured this offensive editorial written from the perspective of 100 years from September 11, 2001, in which the editorialist blamed the monstrous attacks and ensuing carnage on President George W. Bush.  True to the newspaper’s leftist mantra of [...]


Photos from Phoenix City Council candidate Eric Frederick fundraiser
The fundraiser for Eric Frederick went well last night. Eric made it through the runoff election and will face liberal Thelda Williams in the general election this fall. Williams plans for Phoenix? "Expanding financial resources to grow the budget." I am not kidding she really said that. Williams is all about big, liberal government. This [...]


Senator Russell Pearce fundraiser with Sheriff Joe Arpaio
A Sen. Russell Pearce fundraiser will be hosted by the Buffalo Chip Saloon & Steakhouse from 5-9 pm, Sat., Sept 17 at 6811 E. Cave Creek Road, Cave Creek. Tickets are $25 each (BBQ & music). Sheriff Joe Arpaio and Pearce will speak. Other Republican leaders will also be present. No RVSP or reservations required.


Maricopa GOP starts independent expenditure committee to defend Russell Pearce against bogus recall
The Maricopa County Republican Party has formed the "Maricopa GOP to Elect Russell Pearce" independent expenditure committee and a fundraising website to support Pearce in his upcoming Nov. 8 recall election. The Legal ID# of the Campaign Committee is 201200180. Online donations can be made at the Maricopa GOP to Elect Russell Pearce website – http://electrussellpearce.com/   [...]


keep looking »



GOP Legislator Tweets

Categories

Select Category
Arizona Budget
Arizona Sunlight
AZ Conservative
Az House Republicans
AZ Senate Repulicans
Border Issues
Education
Energy
EspressoPundit
Gila Courier
Health Care
Heuisler
Ideas that Work
Intellectual Conservative Arizona
Papa Todd
Public Pensions
RedState
Saddlebrook
SeeingRedArizona
SonoranAlliance
States Rights
Tax Reform
TheChollaJumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party
Uncategorized



Archives

September 2011 (229)
August 2011 (386)
April 2011 (1)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (9)
January 2011 (14)


Blogroll

Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Senate Republicans
Arizona Sunlight
AZConservative
Bill Heuisler
Espresso Pundit
Gila Courier
Intellectual Conservate Arizona
Papa Todd
Red State
Saddlebrook Republican Club
Seeing Red AZ
Sonoran Alliance
The Arizona News & Telegraph
The Cholla Jumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party







Search for:




 Please feel free to contact us with your thoughts and ideas.

Get Connected
 Get Posts by RSS

Get Posts by Email
Your email: 

 By TwitterButtons.com

 Recent Posts

LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul
Morning Briefing for September 12, 2011
PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.
Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!
NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14


Recent Comments
Ryan Adams on Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential DebateAzAdmin on If Nixon Could Go To China, Conservatives Can Save The PlanetDesert Messenger on Quartzsite elects new mayor in recall — or maybe notDave Franicis-Brittanicus on Illegal Aliens Receive $4.2 Billion in Additional Child Tax Creditskate on Speaker Boehner Responds To Obama










Elements of SEO is Powered by WordPress | Accessible Website Development - Alibi Productions
Copyright © 2011 by Morning in Arizona







