2011  August | Morning in Arizona




Home
About



Morning in Arizona
Arizona: Open for Business





Tech at Night: Obama and Holder drop a bomb on jobs and competition, California tax battle continues
So much going on suddenly this week. Barack Obama and Eric Holder’s DoJ has decided to come after AT&T for its plans to merge with T-Mobile, possibly doing the bidding of donors while hindering jobs growth in America as well as nationwide 4G wireless Internet competition. Sprint’s not doing much to keep Verizon in check; [...]




Phoenix election results: Republicans prepare to retake Phoenix
Yesterday, the City of Phoenix wrapped up its first round of elections by finalizing who will fill at least three council seats. (See Results) Former State Senator, Jim Waring and current councilmen, Bill Gates and Michael Nowakowski easily won their primaries with Waring overcoming interim councilman Bryan Jeffries and Gates fending off a challenge by [...]


DOJ Advises Gibson Guitar to Export Labor to Madagascar
The Gibson Guitar saga has taken a sinister turn. It seems that the Department of Justice wasn’t satisfied with merely raiding the law abiding factories of Gibson Guitar with armed agents, shutting down their operation costing them millions, and leaving the American company in the dark as to how to proceed without going out of [...]


Dick Morris on Romney vs Perry on Job Creation
As Dick Morris remarks on his YouTube Channel, “Whoever wins the issue, probably wins the nomination! Who will it be?” Discuss amongst yourselves… Click here to view the embedded video.


Krauthammer To Boehner: Give Obama The Time He Wants
According to reporting by Allahpundit at Hotair, whom I have no reason to doubt, Charles Krauthammer believes Speaker Boehner should have acquiesced in Obama’s trolling of the GOP debate. Simple logic: When your opponent’s in the process of making a mistake, get out of his way. Krauthammer’s theory is that letting The One address Congress [...]


Mayor of ‘Nazi-cop’ town booted, says election stolen
Reposted from WorldNetDaily.com.  By Joe Kovacs ‘They found a whole bunch of early ballots they could stuff the box with’ The mayor of Quartzsite, Ariz., the town seething in vitriol since police forcibly removed a woman from speaking at a public meeting despite the mayor’s objections lost in a recall election last night, but claims [...]


How’d The Onion find Trent Franks?
An iconoclastically satirical website called The Onion runs this spoof on Arizona’s Second Congressional District Rep. Trent Franks. Franks‘ own site is topped with this quote from essayist and transcendentalist, Henry David Thoreau: “Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth.” The Onion, not to be outdone, has a droll disclaimer at the [...]


Senate President Pearce: Rising revenues a sign state budget plan is working, but we must stay fiscally responsible
A new report from the Joint Legislative Budget Committee shows continued strong growth for the State of Arizona. General Fund revenues are up 8.4% from this time last year, and July collections are up $35.4 million from the budget forecast. “The State is really starting to see an economic comeback. The Legislature started the session [...]


‘Jihad Joe’ and the Radicalization of American Muslims
tweetmeme_screen_name = ‘jeffemanuel’; AT A TIME when so many books on politics, religion, and world events are little more than puffed-up pamphlets which are simultaneously high on hyper-partisanship and low on facts, J. M. Berger‘s Jihad Joe, a treatment of the radicalization and actions of American Muslims who have dedicated themselves to “violent jihad” (the [...]


Speaker Boehner Responds To Obama
Kudos to Speaker John Boehner for his timely and appropriate response to a juvenile stunt pulled by the Obama White House. That the short notice demand for a Joint Session of Congress was anything other than junior high level one-upmanship was dispelled today when the zero gravity press secretary, Jay Carney, compared the scheduled GOP [...]


keep looking »



GOP Legislator Tweets

Categories

Select Category
Arizona Budget
Arizona Sunlight
AZ Conservative
Az House Republicans
AZ Senate Repulicans
Border Issues
Education
Energy
EspressoPundit
Gila Courier
Health Care
Heuisler
Ideas that Work
Intellectual Conservative Arizona
Papa Todd
Public Pensions
RedState
Saddlebrook
SeeingRedArizona
SonoranAlliance
States Rights
Tax Reform
TheChollaJumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party
Uncategorized



Archives

September 2011 (229)
August 2011 (386)
April 2011 (1)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (9)
January 2011 (14)


Blogroll

Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Senate Republicans
Arizona Sunlight
AZConservative
Bill Heuisler
Espresso Pundit
Gila Courier
Intellectual Conservate Arizona
Papa Todd
Red State
Saddlebrook Republican Club
Seeing Red AZ
Sonoran Alliance
The Arizona News & Telegraph
The Cholla Jumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party







Search for:




 Please feel free to contact us with your thoughts and ideas.

Get Connected
 Get Posts by RSS

Get Posts by Email
Your email: 

 By TwitterButtons.com

 Recent Posts

LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul
Morning Briefing for September 12, 2011
PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.
Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!
NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14


Recent Comments
Ryan Adams on Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential DebateAzAdmin on If Nixon Could Go To China, Conservatives Can Save The PlanetDesert Messenger on Quartzsite elects new mayor in recall — or maybe notDave Franicis-Brittanicus on Illegal Aliens Receive $4.2 Billion in Additional Child Tax Creditskate on Speaker Boehner Responds To Obama










Elements of SEO is Powered by WordPress | Accessible Website Development - Alibi Productions
Copyright © 2011 by Morning in Arizona







