2010  August | Fire Special Operations
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Fire Special Operations


About
Cheat Sheets
Training
Documents
Technology
Links






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Not Your Average Pool Rescue
No comments







 The Times Tribune.com Reports:
SCRANTON, PA – City firefighters had to cut apart a pool table Wednesday night to rescue a young boy who twisted his arm shoulder-deep in a hole to reach the cue ball.
The boy, who is 8 or 9 years old, was stuck for a half-hour in the table at the Comfort Suites hotel, Acting Lt. John Judge said.
Firefighters used saws, chisels and hammers to pry apart the table. It was a surgical rescue, Lt. Judge said. And though it was his first time saving someone from billiards, it was familiar territory for veteran firefighter Mike Grimes, which gave the Rescue 1 crew a ready game plan.
Body lotion from the hotel was used to finally slip the boy’s arm free. He was unharmed.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 5, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations



Base Jumper Spends the Night Hanging from Cliff.  Gets Rescued then Arrested
No comments






Photo by King5 TV
KING 5 News and Associated Press Report:
MOUNT BARING, Wash. — Authorities say a BASE jumper who spent the night hanging from parachute straps on Mount Baring was rescued Tuesday and flown to Granite Falls where he was arrested for an unrelated case in Skagit County. Sheriff’s Deputy Will Reichardt says 44-year-old Eldon Burrier of Lynnwood was booked into jail on a district court warrant accusing him of reckless endangerment in May at a Washington state park. Burrier was released because of overcrowding at the jail in Mount Vernon. (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 4, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: cliff rescue, ground search, high angle, rescue team, rope rescue, search & rescue, tactical rescue, technical rescue 


Suspicious Odor Evacuates Florida Value Place Motel
No comments






Photo by Bruce Graner / bgraner@pnj.com
About 100 residents of the Value Place Motel in Escambia, Florida were evacuated into the streets while police, fire, and hazmat responders searched the hotel for the source of a suspicious stank.  Responders feared the fumes may be from a meth lab in one of  the hotel rooms.  In the end, responders did not find the source of the mystery odor, and allowed the patrons to return to their rooms.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 3, 2010 •
		Filed under: hazmat, mass-casualty-incident, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: evacuation, fumes, hazmat, hazmat team, meth lab, odor, sick building, sick building syndrome 


Crews Conduct a Level A Entry for a Chlorine Leak at a Virginia Water Treatment Plant
No comments








Waynesboro, VA public works crews reported a leak in a one-ton container of chlorine at the water treatment plant. The employees were able to shut  the valve off as they evacuated the building.  There were no reports of injuries.
Waynesboro fire department responded and dressed out responders in level A PPE.
NBC29.com reports ”Their actions in cutting the valve off, the only thing remaining to leak out in the system was what residual chlorine pressurized,” explained Kenny Hyden with the Waynesboro Fire Department. “By the time our crews were assembled in fully encapsulated suits and made entry into the building, there was no active chlorine leak at that point.”





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 3, 2010 •
		Filed under: hazmat, special-operations
		• Tagged: B-kit, chlorine, chlorine kit, hazmat, hazmat team, leak, leak control, level A, one ton cylinder 


Editorial: US&R and Water Rescue by Mick Mayers
1 comment






Responders prepare to mark a house during Hurricane Katrina SAR Operations. Photo by USCG Petty Officer Robert M. Reed
Guest Editorial by Mick Mayers: I have long been a proponent of adding water response capability to the US&R bag o’ tricks, but the extent of capability must be objectively assessed by team leaders before launching into this mission wholesale.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 1, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighting-operations, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: editorial, hurrican, katrina, mick mayers, SUSAR, swift water rescue, urban search & rescue, US&R, USAR, water rescue 


Multi-Agency Rescue Effort Frees Man from Trench in Pennsylvania
No comments






A group of 5 men set out to help install a french drain at a Pennsylvania home, when one of them became trapped in the trench they dug.  A wall of dirt gave way trapping the man to his chest in the 6 foot deep by 4 foot wide trench.  Numerous fire, EMS, and police agencies from across Allegancy county worked together to fee the man.
Photo from baldwinems.com 
Photo by baldwinems.com
 
According to the PittsburgChannel.com: Alvin Henderson, assistant chief for Allegheny County Emergency Services, said crush syndrome was a concern because it can set in almost immediately as the weight of the dirt cuts off circulation to the legs and lower extremities.
Click Here to See the News Video
More Incident photos are posted on Badlwin EMS’s homepage





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on August 1, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-topics, fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations, videos
		• Tagged: Allegheny county, emergency services, special-operations, technical rescue, trench collapse, trench rescue, trench rescue team, trench team 
 




 








New Up Loads
3/7/10 - Two crush syndrome EMS treatment protocols added to the Document page.   
2/28/10 - IED Stand Off Distance card added to the Cheat Sheet page


Current US Threat Level 




Homeland Security Live Alert

 State Urban Search & Rescue
Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011TrainingRe: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011
 Homeland Security News
Threats posted on White House Facebook pagePolice Meet Plane At Detroit Metro Airport911 Video – Remembering What We SawSouthwest Flight Diverted Over Suspicious PassengerTravelers Interviewed in 9/11 Terror Probe


Recent Comments
web design bangalore on Ohio Derailment Caused Brief Evacuation.Gav-070406 on Crush Syndrome…The Smiling DeathBLS Certification on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.Arrugha on Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!tArrugha on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.


 Sponsors
 
 



Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				



















