 Old River-Winfree Community News




Home About
Birds of Old River Country
RSS














Old River-Winfree Community News
Old River-Winfree Community News and Information

 Most Visited Posts Tribute:  10th Anniversary of 9-11, We Will Never Forget!Lake Texoma Under Blue-Green Algae WarningLavender Fields in Texas?Gov. Perry Announces Emergency Hotel Voucher Program for Victims of Bastrop County FireBirds of Chambers County - Mourning Dove 


Latest Entries »


Boy Scout Pack 105 Presents the Mayor of Mont Belvieu with the Flag of Heroes


						Filed under: Boy Scouts, ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 11, 2011




Pack 105 held a ceremony on Sunday at 8am Mont Belvieu, TX where the Mayor Dixon of Mont Belvieu was presented the mayor a Flag of Heroes for the city to fly every September 11th. 
The Flag of Heroes was lowered at 8:46am in memory of those who perished in the twin towers. 
Each First Responder in attendance was presented with a 10th anniversary 9/11 commemorative lapel pin in appreciation of their service to our community. 


This slideshow requires JavaScript.



Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Boy Scouts, ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Gov. Perry: Images of September 11th are Forever in Our Minds


						Filed under: America, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 11, 2011




Sunday, September 11, 2011  •  Austin, Texas  •  Speech

Thank you all for being here this morning as we mark the most somber of anniversaries.
We gather here 10 years removed from the events of September 11, 2001, a day that feels both as close as yesterday and as far away as another lifetime.
Over the past few weeks, in the buildup to this day, we’ve all seen the photos once again, watched the videos and listened to the stories of the survivors and those who lost loved ones.
Reliving those events today is every bit as painful as it was 10 years ago.
In the years since the attacks, however, the painful memories of that bright fall morning have been balanced by our recollections of the valor we witnessed on that day, the fine examples of devotion and sacrifice displayed by the brave men and women who faced death in an effort to save their fellow Americans.
We’re moved by the haunting images of firefighters climbing stairs in World Trade Center 1 and 2.
We’re touched by the stories of members of our military and nearby civilians, braving the flames to pull the injured to safety at the Pentagon.
We’re inspired by the passengers on United 93 who uttered their last words to friends and loved ones over cell phones as they prepared to retake their plane and save lives on the ground.
There’s power in those sacrifices, power that elevated our nation during some of our darkest hours.
If our enemies’ goal was to demoralize America and paralyze us with fear, they failed…miserably.
Instead, the attacks of 9/11 provided inspiration to a new generation of American patriots, moved to action by the selflessness we all witnessed in New York, Washington, and in the skies over Pennsylvania.
Some of these patriots joined the military, serving on the vanguard of the War on Terror, helping liberate millions from tyranny’s oppression.
Some became firefighters, police officers, or paramedics, each one living their life with the same dedication, and the same spirit of honor, as those who died on 9/11.
That spirit of honor can be found today in people from all walks of life throughout America, our nation forever changed by the heroism of that day.
In fact, that spirit of honor can be found right now in the brave men and women fighting wildfires across Texas placing their lives on the line to save lives and property from the flames that continue to ravage our state.
What the terrorists didn’t understand was an essential part of our national character, our ability to find unity in the face of adversity.
When faced with an act of overwhelming evil, we countered with caring and love for those who were affected and a determination to strike back against those who committed these acts.
Thanks to the courage and determination of a team of Navy SEALS and anonymous members of our military and intelligence communities, the mastermind behind the attacks has paid the ultimate price for his crimes.
However, if 9/11 taught us anything, it’s that we must remain vigilant; we must continue to pursue those who would do us harm; we must remain committed to disrupting and eliminating the terrorist element that would like nothing more than to attack our nation again and kill innocent civilians.
More than anything, we need to remain forever dedicated to the cause that has defined our nation, the cause that separates us from the terrorists that hate us, the cause of freedom.
We will never forget those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001, and we will never forget the men and women who have died in service to our nation in the decade since.
May God bless you and, through you, may he continue to bless the Great State of Texas and this country we love so much.
 
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: America, Texas


Comment 






Tribute:  10th Anniversary of 9-11, We Will Never Forget!


						Filed under: America, ORW Community News, Texas, Videos/Slideshows by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 10, 2011




They were not warriors, but they became heroes.  Everyday people, just like you and me, whose only crime was to simply go to work or get on a plane to see family, go on vacation, or to a business meeting.
************************************************************
Source:  AP
On September 11, 2001, Al Qaeda launched a series of coordinated and deadly terror attacks on American soil that struck the heart of the country’s military and financial power centers. Click through for a timeline of the events that occurred on that day.

This slideshow requires JavaScript.





North Tower Hit
8:45 a.m.: American Airlines Flight 11 crashes into the North World Trade Center tower. Flight 11 departed Boston bound for Los Angeles at 7:59 a.m., carrying 92 people including 5 hijackers.
South Tower Hit
9:03 a.m.: United Airlines Flight 175 crashes into the South World Trade Center tower. Flight 175 departed Boston bound for Los Angeles carrying 65 people including 5 hijackers.
President Bush Informed
9:05 a.m.: President George W. Bush, speaking to students at the Emma E. Booker Elementary School in Sarasota, Fla., is interrupted by Chief of Staff Andrew Card about a second plane crashing into the South Tower.
Fighter Jets Deployed
9:13 a.m.:  Two F-15 fighter jets from Otis Air National Guard Base leave military airspace on Cape Cod and head for Manhattan. Minutes later, the Federal Aviation Administration bans takeoffs nationwide for flights heading to the New York area.
Bridges Closed
9:21 a.m.: All bridges and tunnels into Manhattan are closed. Residents and workers in lower Manhattan take to the streets to get away from the ash filling the air.
Pentagon Hit
9:40 a.m.: American Airlines Flight 77 crashes into the west side of the Pentagon, killing all 64 people on board and 125 Pentagon personnel.
White House Evacuated
9:43 a.m.: The West Wing of the White House and the U.S. Capitol building are evacuated and closed.
South Tower Collapses
9:59 a.m.: The South Tower of the World Trade Center collapses.
United 93 Crashes
10:03 a.m.: United Airlines Flight 93 crashes near Shanksville, Pa., following a passenger revolt against the hijackers. All 44 people on board, including 4 hijackers, were killed.
North Tower Collapses
10:28 a.m.: The North Tower collapses approximately 30 minutes after the South Tower.
Mayor Giuliani Orders Evacuation
10:49AM: New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani orders an evacuation of Lower Manhattan.
Firemen Raise the Flag
5:00 p.m.: As rescue workers continue to go through the rubble, New York City firemen hoist an American flag at the site of the World Trade Center — an iconic image often compared to the World War II photo of the raising of the flag on Iwo Jima.
Bush Speaks
8:30 p.m.: President Bush addresses the nation from the White House. Members of Congress are told that the administration has enough evidence indicating Usama bin Laden and his Al Qaeda terrorist network are responsible for the attacks.
May God Bless America and America Continue to Bless God!


Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: America, ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Gov. Perry Announces Emergency Hotel Voucher Program for Victims of Bastrop County Fire


						Filed under: Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 10, 2011




Texas Disaster Relief Fund, TDHCA providing assistance to individuals and families
Friday, September 09, 2011  •  Austin, Texas  •  Press Release

Gov. Rick Perry today announced that up to $250,000 from the Texas Disaster Relief Fund will be distributed through Combined Community Action Inc. to provide seven-day emergency hotel vouchers for individuals and families whose homes have been destroyed in the Bastrop County fire. Combined Community Action will also administer flexible assistance cards using up to $350,000 from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs to cover essential expenses for these individuals and families.
“Thanks to generous donations to the Texas Disaster Relief Fund, we can provide some basic necessities to Texans whose homes have been destroyed due to these merciless fires in the absence of federal aid,” Gov. Perry said. “We continue to be hopeful that President Obama will approve the state’s request for an extension of our Major Disaster Declaration, and provide housing and other assistance to help those who have lost so much so quickly in these devastating fires.”
Volunteers from Combined Community Action will be at each Bastrop County shelter beginning at 10 a.m. on Saturday to take applications for hotel vouchers from those who are currently living in the shelters. These vouchers will allow those whose homes were destroyed to move from makeshift shelters into motels while the state awaits President Obama’s approval of an extension of the state’s Major Disaster Declaration.
Gov. Perry spoke to President Barack Obama on Wednesday and U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano on Tuesday to request an extension of the president’s partial Major Disaster Declaration to include fires from the last week. The governor also requested the addition of Individual Assistance to the Major Disaster Declaration for all damages from wildfires beginning on or after the Labor Day weekend, and the deployment of federal resources, including Department of Defense assets, to support ongoing wildfire response and recovery efforts in Texas. In cooperation with Gov. Perry and at his request, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst today sent a letter to President Obama with supporting information for these requests.
The Texas Disaster Relief Fund is a registered non-profit 501(c)(3) organization, created to compliment, not duplicate, existing relief resources provided by FEMA and other insurance and non-profit organizations. The fund gives Texans the opportunity to donate money that will go directly to Texas communities whose resources have been strained by disasters. Gov. Perry established the Texas Disaster Relief Fund in September 2005 in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita to help individuals and businesses get back on their feet. To donate to the fund, please call 1-866-463-7982.
In the past seven days, Texas Forest Service has responded to 140 fires that have scorched more than 154,300 acres, including new large fires in Red River, Rusk, Camp and Hill counties. More than 1,300 homes and 20 businesses have been destroyed in Bastrop County alone.
Gov. Perry has reissued his disaster proclamation nine times this wildfire season; it was originally issued on Dec. 21, 2010. In addition to the state proclamations in April, the governor sent a letter to President Obama requesting a Major Disaster Declaration, which would have made the state eligible for Direct Federal Assistance and Emergency Protective Measures from the federal government. The Obama Administration denied this request on May 3. Gov. Perry appealed the president’s decision on May 26, and received partial approval of relief on July 1. A request to expand the scope of federal relief is still pending in addition to the request made this week.
For more information on preparing for wildfire threats, please visithttp://governor.state.tx.us/wildfires.
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Texas


Comment 






Aiding in the Texas Wildfires


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 9, 2011




Hello All,
We have had several calls and emails about sending supplies to the wildfire affected areas, setting up location donation points in our county, etc.  Here is what I was able to find out by going through the proper channels within the Texas Division of Emergency Management:  Right now, we have been asked not to send any goods.  I am told the reason is because they have a large warehouse full of items and are being inundated by unsolicited tangible donations.  Therefore, what we feel the best plan of action would be is to solicit monetary donations instead of tangible goods.  That way, the funds can be used by the recipient to purchase exactly what they need.

To Help Families
If anyone wants to contribute to help families, our suggestion is that they contribute directly to the Red Cross, which will go to help families affected by the wildfires.
The number to call for information on how to help or contribute to the Red Cross is 1-866-526-8300.  The website is www.redcross.org (click on donate funds).

To Help Fire-Fighters/Fire Departments
We are setting up a fund at a local bank here to receive monetary donations that will go directly to the affected area.  More information on this to come.

Thanks,
 
Ryan Holzaepfel, CEM
Chambers County
Emergency Management Coordinator
Fire Marshal
PO Box 957
Anahuac, TX  77514
Office:  409-267-2445
Fax:      409-267-4133
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Boy Scouts of America to Lead Participants and Staff of the ORWFD 5K Run/Walk in Pledge of Allegiance


						Filed under: 5K Run/Walk, America, Boy Scouts, Chambers County Events, Chambers County Texas, Founders Day, Old River-Winfree Founders Day, ORW Community News, Texas, Wounded Warrior Project by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 9, 2011




We have often reported on the Boy Scouts of America and how good and wholesome they are for our country and the leaders that flourish from this fine organization.
At 7:30 a.m. October 8, 2o11, Indian Ridge Drive in Old River-Winfree, the Sam Houston Council of the Raven District, Pack 105 Cub Scouts, with Cub Master-Joel Clemmons and Den Leader-Kimberly Lopez will lead the 3rd Annual ORWFD 5K Run/Walk benefiting the Wounded Warrior Project in Memory of Pfc Wesley R. Riggs participants and staff in the Pledge of Allegiance to the United States Flag.
What a wonderful tribute and added honor for the Wounded Warrior Project, Pfc Wesley R. Riggs, and the runners and walkers that take time from their Saturday to run for the troops in harms way!
There will also be an Honor Flag Guard on each side of the entrance to Indian Ridge that will hold our Flag in honor of all Veterans and those still serving in the Iraq and Afghanistan Theaters of War.
Thanks so much to the Boy Scouts of America that are making this tribute to them possible!
Special thanks to Old River-Winfree resident, Kimberly Lopez for bringing this to the Scouts and getting it approved for our town and the ORWFD 5K Run/Walk!
Hooah!!

Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: America, Boy Scouts, Chambers County Texas, Old River Country, Old River-Winfree, ORW Community News, Texas, Wounded Warrior Project


Comment 






2011 Old River-Winfree Founders Day Classic Car & Truck Show & Contest Sponsored by R&L Auto


						Filed under: Chambers County Events, Old River-Winfree Founders Day, ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 9, 2011




 

Stop by R&L Auto to enter your ride!!!  Contest and Show will be located at R & L Auto on 13103 FM 1409.  Bus rides from the Fairgrounds to R&L Auto will be running up until the end of the contest.
 
 
 
 
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Chambers County Texas, Founders Day, Historic Old River-Winfree, Old River-Winfree, ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Texas Wall of Heroes Coming to Old River-Winfree Founders Day


						Filed under: 5K Run/Walk, Chambers County Events, Founders Day, Old River-Winfree Founders Day, ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 8, 2011





October 7 and 8, 2011
Bring your Cameras!!!
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Chambers County Texas, Old River Country, Old River-Winfree, ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Bastrop Relief Flyer


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 8, 2011





Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Saltwater Fishing Reports  Week of September 7, 2011


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 8, 2011







Water Body
Report


NORTH SABINE
Trout are fair to good under birds and pods of shad on soft plastics. Drifters have worked slicks on shad and plastics. Tides are well below normal.


SOUTH SABINE
Trout are fair to good under birds and pods of shad. Trout are good at the jetty on live bait and topwaters. Flounder are fair at the mouths of the bayous on a falling tide.


BOLIVAR
Trout are good on the south shoreline on Bass Assassins, Trout Killers and Sand Eels. Trout, black drum, sand trout and redfish are good at Rollover Pass. Tides are well below normal.


TRINITY BAY
Trout are good for drifters working pods of shad and mullet on live shrimp. Redfish are good on live bait around the reefs. Redfish are fair to good at the spillway on live bait.


EAST GALVESTON BAY
Tides are well below normal. Trout are good on deep reefs when the wind allows. Whiting and sand trout are good on the edge of the Intracoastal on fresh shrimp.


WEST GALVESTON BAY
Sheepshead, redfish and black drum are good at the jetty on shrimp and crabs. Trout are fair to good at the jetty on live bait.


TEXAS CITY
Trout are fair to good around Dollar Reef and April Fool’s Reef on live shrimp and croakers. Redfish are fair to good in Moses Lake on crabs and shrimp.


FREEPORT
Trout are fair to good at San Luis Pass on shrimp and mullet. Trout are fair to good on live bait on the Surfside beach. Black drum are good on the reefs in Bastrop Bay.


EAST MATAGORDA BAY
Trout are fair for drifters on live shrimp over humps and scattered shell. Waders have taken better catches on the shorelines on small topwaters and croakers.


WEST MATAGORDA BAY
Trout are fair on sand and grass humps on soft plastics and topwaters. Redfish are fair on live shrimp at the mouths of Oyster Lake, Crab Lake and Shell Island.


PORT O’CONNOR
Trout and redfish are fair on live bait over sand, grass and shell in San Antonio Bay and around Pass Cavallo. Trout and redfish are fair for drifters working the back lakes with live shrimp.


ROCKPORT
Redfish are good on mullet on the Estes Flats and around Mud Island. Redfish are beginning to work in large schools.


PORT ARANSAS
Redfish are fair at East Flats on topwaters and Gulps. Trout, redfish and sheepshead are fair to good at the jetty on shrimp and croakers. Offshore is good for amberjack, kingfish, tuna and dolphin.


CORPUS CHRISTI
Trout are fair on the edge of the spoils on Gulps, piggy perch and live shrimp. Redfish are good in the guts running parallel to the shorelines.


BAFFIN BAY
Trout are good on topwaters and plum plastics around rocks and grass. Redfish are fair to good in knee–deep water on small Super Spooks, She Pups and SkitterWalks. Trout are good at the Land Cut on shrimp.


PORT MANSFIELD
Trout are fair to good on the edge of the channel and around the spoils on scented baits. Redfish are fair to good while drifting pot holes on topwaters and soft plastics under a popping cork. Offshore is good for kingfish, ling and dolphin.


SOUTH PADRE
Trout, redfish and snook are fair to good in South Bay and Mexiquita Flats. Tarpon and snook are good on DOA Shrimp at the jetty. Trout are fair to good on the edge of the spoils on live shrimp and mullet.


PORT ISABEL
Trout and redfish are fair to good while drifting sand and grass flats on live shrimp, DOA Shrimp and Gulps under popping corks. Redfish are good on gold spoons along the shorelines.



Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Freshwater Fishing Reports  Week of September 7, 2011


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 8, 2011







Water Body
Report


ALAN HENRY
Water lightly stained; 88–91 degrees; 6.45’ low. Black bass are good on topwaters and weightless soft plastics early, later switching to Carolina rigs, jigs and Texas rigs. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs. Catfish are fair on nightcrawlers.


AMISTAD
Water clear; 86–92 degrees; 6.20’ low. Black bass are good on soft plastics, jigs, and drop shots. Striped bass are slow. White bass are fair on minnows. Crappie are slow. Catfish are good on cheesebait, shrimp, and liver over baited holes. Yellow catfish are fair on trotlines, juglines, and droplines baited with live perch. Everyone in a boat must have a Mexico fishing license (if fishing the Mexico side) whether fishing or not.


ARROWHEAD
Water turbid; 87–91 degrees; 8.08’ low. Black bass are fair on topwaters, Texas rigs and spinnerbaits. Crappie are fair on jigs and minnows. White bass are good on slabs. Blue catfish are good on juglines with cut shad.


ATHENS
Water clear, 88–94 degrees; 4.44’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigged worms, shakyheads and Carolina rigs – midday concentrate on deeper brush piles. Crappie are good on jigs and minnows. Catfish are good on prepared bait.


BASTROP
Water clear; 84–87 degrees. Black bass are fair on chartreuse crankbaits, spinnerbaits, and soft plastics. Crappie are good on minnows and green tube jigs. Channel and blue catfish are good on shrimp, liver, and nightcrawlers. Yellow catfish are slow.


BELTON
Water clear; 82–86 degrees; 9.36’ low. Black bass are good on spinnerbaits and soft plastics in coves. Hybrid striper are good on live shad. White bass are slow. Crappie are fair on minnows. Channel and blue catfish are good on shrimp and stinkbait. Yellow catfish are slow.


BOB SANDLIN
Water lightly stained; 88–94 degrees; 7.89’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigged worms and football jigs off ledges and in brush piles. Crappie are good on live minnows. White bass are good on Humdingers and topwaters. Catfish are fair to good on trotlines or juglines with Redneck’s Catfish Bait Soap.


BRAUNIG
Water clear. Black bass are fair on crankbaits and watermelon soft plastic worms in reeds. Striped bass are good on liver and shad off points. Redfish are good on perch, shad, and silver spoons near the dam. Channel catfish are excellent on liver, shrimp, and cut bait near the dam. Blue catfish are fair on cut bait.


BRIDGEPORT
Water clear; 88–93 degrees; 13.10’ low. Black bass are good on medium running crankbaits in shad patterns and Texas rigged Jackall Sasuteki Craws on deeper docks. Best colors are green pumpkin with pincers dipped in chartreuse. Crappie are good on jigs and minnows. White bass are good on slabs. Hybrid stripers are good on slabs. Channel catfish are fair on cut and prepared bait.


BROWNWOOD
Water clear; 15.70’ low. Black bass are fair on Grande Bass 4” watermelon red worms and Bass Hogg spinnerbaits near the docks in 12–18 feet. Hybrid striper are fair on shad. White bass are good on Li’l Fishies and small crankbaits off lighted docks at night. Crappie are good on Li’l Fishies and minnows over brush piles. Channel catfish are fair on trotlines baited with cut bait and liver. Yellow catfish are slow.


BUCHANAN
Water clear; 81–84 degrees; 28.84’ low. All public boat ramps are closed. Black bass are fair to good on watermelon flukes, Rat–L–Traps, JDC Skip–N–Pop topwaters, and watermelon red Whacky Sticks along break lines of flats. Striped bass are good drifting live bait around Lighthouse Point, and on plastic swim baits on the surface. White bass are fair but small on Li’l Fishies and plastic swim baits. Crappie are fair on chartreuse Curb’s crappie jigs and live minnows. Channel catfish are good on stinkbait, minnows, and shrimp. Yellow and blue catfish are good on goldfish and perch upriver.


CADDO
Water stained; 88–94 degrees; 1.63’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rig worms and topwaters early, late switching to shallow crankbaits around isolated cover. White bass are fair on slabs. Yellow bass are good on minnows. Catfish are fair on nightcrawlers and prepared bait.


CALAVERAS
Water clear. Black bass are fair on chartreuse soft plastic worms, spinnerbaits, and crankbaits near the dam. Striped bass are good on chicken livers and shad along the shoreline. Redfish are slow. Crappie are slow. Channel and blue catfish are fair on liver, cheesebait, shrimp, and shad near the railroad trestle. Yellow catfish are slow.


CANYON LAKE
Water clear; 79–82 degrees; 7.63’ low. Black bass are fair on watermelon red soft plastics, JDC Skip–N–Pop topwaters, and Texas rigged blue flake worms along grass banks. Striped bass are fair jigging 1oz. Pirk Minnows at daylight and trolling Gizz 4 crankbaits over and around humps. White bass are slow. Smallmouth bass are fair on pumpkin Curb’s jigs and white JDC grubs in 10–20 feet. Crappie are slow. Channel catfish are slow. Yellow and blue catfish are fair on live bait.


CEDAR CREEK
Water lightly stained; 88–93 degrees; 6.21’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rig worms, shaky heads and finesse jigs around docks – best action is in early morning with deep brush piles producing throughout the day on Carolina rigs. White bass are good on slabs. Hybrid stripers are good on live shad. Crappie are fair to good on minnows. Catfish are fair drifting cut shad.


CHOKE CANYON
Water clear; 79–82 degrees; 10.24’ low. Black bass are fair on watermelon crankbaits and large soft plastic lizards and worms. White bass are slow. Crappie are slow. Drum are slow. Channel and blue catfish are fair on stinkbait and shrimp. Yellow catfish are fair on trotlines baited with live perch.


COLEMAN
Water clear; 78–82 degrees; 15.26’ low. Black bass are fair on chartreuse crankbaits, spinnerbaits, and Rat–L–Traps. Hybrid striper are slow. Crappie are good on minnows and blue tube jigs. Channel catfish are good on stinkbait and shrimp. Yellow catfish are slow.


COLETO CREEK
Water fairly clear; 3.68’ low. Black bass are slow. Striped bass are fair on minnows. White bass are fair on minnows. Crappie are slow. Channel and blue catfish are slow. Yellow catfish are slow.


COLORADO CITY
15.79’ low. Fish populations have been severely damaged by a golden alga bloom.


CONROE
Water fairly clear; 81–84 degrees; 5.00’ low. Black bass are good on watermelon red Carolina rigged soft plastics, spinnerbaits, and crankbaits. Striped bass are fair on chartreuse striper jigs and minnows. Crappie are fair on minnows. Catfish are good on stinkbait and nightcrawlers.


COOPER
Water lightly stained; 88–94 degrees; 9.84’ low. Black bass are good on medium crankbaits, topwaters early and Texas rig worms throughout the day. Crappie are good on minnows. White bass are good on slabs. Hybrid striper are fair to good on Sassy Shad and live shad. Catfish are good on prepared bait and cut bait.


FAIRFIELD
Fishing has been slow since the fish kill in September of 2010. TPWD is currently stocking the lake. Redfish and black bass survived the kill in limited numbers.


FALCON
Water clear; 87–91 degrees. Black bass are good on chartreuse soft plastic worms, spinnerbaits, and crankbaits. Striped bass are slow. Channel and blue catfish are excellent on stinkbait, shrimp, and cut bait. Yellow catfish are slow. Everyone in a boat must have a Mexico fishing license (if fishing the Mexico side) whether fishing or not.


FAYETTE
Water clear. Black bass are fair on watermelon and shad colored swim baits, spinnerbaits, and soft plastics in 12–20 feet. Channel and blue catfish are fair on cut shad.


FORK
Water fairly clear; 88–93 degrees; 6.28’ low. Black bass are good on 3/4oz. football head jigs with LFT Hyper Freak trailers, Carolina rigs and deep diving crankbaits in deeper water along main lake humps, drops and brush piles. There has been a good shallow bite early on topwaters and soft plastics and reports of fish schooling mid day around bridges. The night bite has been good after midnight. Crappie are fair to good on minnows and jigs. Catfish are good on cut shad and prepared bait.


FT. PHANTOM HILL
Water clear; 86–89 degrees; 9.2’ low. Black bass are fair on topwaters, Texas rigs, chatterbaits and medium running crankbaits. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs over brush piles. White bass are fair to good on Humdingers. Catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers.


GIBBONS CREEK
Water clear. Black bass are fair on watermelon Carolina rigged soft plastics and Rat–L–Traps. Crappie are fair on minnows. Catfish are good on stinkbait, bloodbait, and nightcrawlers.


GRANBURY
Water clear; 85–88 degrees; 4.81’ low. Black bass are fair on chartreuse Rat–L–Traps and soft plastics. Striped bass are fair on chartreuse striper jigs. White bass are slow. Crappie are fair on minnows. Catfish are good on stinkbait, liver, and live bait.


GRANGER
Water stained; 85–89 degrees; 4.02’ low. Black bass are good on soft plastic worms upriver around flooded timber and among main lake brush. White bass are good on slab spoons over humps and ridges. Crappie are good on chartreuse tube jigs in 6–12 feet. Blue catfish are good on juglines baited with Zote soap. Yellow catfish are slow.


GRAPEVINE
Water clear; 89–94 degrees; 3.39’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigged worms, finesse jigs, and medium crankbaits along main lake points. Good deep crankbait and football head jig bite along offshore structure as well. Crappie are good on minnows. White bass are good on topwaters and Rat–L–Traps. Catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers and cut shad.


GREENBELT
Water stained; 86–91 degrees; 36’ low. Black bass are fair on topwaters early, later switching to Carolina rigs, Texas rigs and jigs. Crappie are fair on jigs and minnows over brush piles. White bass are good on Humdingers. Smallmouth bass are fair on medium running crankbaits. Walleye are slow. Catfish are fair on nightcrawlers.


HOUSTON COUNTY
Water clear; 92–96 degrees; 2.52’ low. Black bass to 6 pounds are very good on watermelon red Brush Hogs near brush on the south side of the lake in 6 feet, and on silver shad topwaters around piers. Crappie are slow. Red ear bream are good on live worms over grass beds. Channel and blue catfish are good on trotlines baited with perch in 20 feet.


HUBBARD CREEK
86–89 degrees; 14.21’ low. Black bass are good on Yellow Magics, Texas rigs and weightless flukes. Crappie are fair on jigs and minnows over brush piles. Catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers.


JOE POOL
Water clear; 88–94 degrees; 2.91’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigs, medium crankbaits and jigs. Deep brush piles are best later in day. Crappie are good on minnows and jigs. White bass are good on slabs. Catfish are fair to good on prepared baits.


LAKE O’ THE PINES
Water lightly stained; 88–94 degrees; 2.95’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigs, topwaters early and jigs later in the day off brush piles. Crappie are good on minnows and jigs. Catfish are good on cut shad.


LAVON
Water lightly stained; 88–93 degrees; 10.17’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rig creature baits, topwaters and medium crankbaits. Shallow bite is good early. White bass are good on slabs. Crappie are good on minnows and jigs around bridge columns. Catfish are good on cut shad and nightcrawlers.


LBJ
Water fairly clear; 82–85 degrees; 0.28’ low. Black bass are fair on green pumpkin tubes, perch colored spinnerbaits, and watermelon red Curb’s jigs in 5–12 feet. Striped bass are fair on minnows at night. White bass are fair on minnows at night. Crappie are good on chartreuse Curb’s crappie jigs and live minnows over brush piles. Channel catfish are good on liver and stinkbait. Yellow and blue catfish are good on trotlines baited with goldfish and perch.


LEWISVILLE
Water clear; 89–94 degrees; 5.13’ low. Black bass are good on medium running crankbaits, shaky heads and Texas rigged plastics on main lake points in 10–15 feet or football head jigs along same areas. Jackall Flick Shakes around boat stalls are producing too. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs. White bass are good on slabs. Hybrid stripers are fair on slabs and Sassy Shad. Catfish are good on prepared bait.


LIVINGSTON
Water fairly clear; 88–91 degrees; 2.79’ low. Black bass are good on spinnerbaits and soft plastic worms. Striped bass are fair on Rat–L–Traps and chartreuse striper jigs. White bass are good on troll tubes, pet spoons, and green Charlie slabs. Crappie are good on minnows. Blue catfish are fair on shad. Yellow catfish are slow.


MACKENZIE
Water stained; 85–89 degrees; 84.5’ low. No report available.


MARTIN CREEK
Water fairly clear; 10.52’ low. No report available.


MEREDITH
Water fairly clear; 86–89 degrees; 95.51’ low. No report available.


MONTICELLO
Water fairly clear; 89–94 degrees; .92’ high. Black bass are good on shallow crankbaits, chatterbaits and Texas rigged worms. Concentrate on deeper creek channels for best results later in the day. Shallow bite is best early in the morning with occasional schooling noted. No reports on crappie. No reports on catfish.


NASWORTHY
No report available.


NAVARRO MILLS
Water lightly stained; 89–92 degrees; 3.22’ low. Black bass are good on minnows from docks. White bass are good near the dam early. Crappie are fair but mostly small on minnows and blue/white jigs over brush piles in 9–15 feet. Channel catfish are fair on stinkbait and shrimp. Blue catfish are fair on juglines baited with perch. Yellow catfish are slow.


O.H. IVIE
Water stained; 86–89 degrees; 35.04’ low. Black bass are fair to good on Zell Pops, Senkos, Texas rigs and Rat–L–Traps. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs. White bass are fair to good on slabs. Catfish are good on nightcrawlers.


OAK CREEK
Water stained; 87–89 degrees; 12.98’ low. Black bass are fair to good on topwaters early, later switching to Texas rigs, Carolina rigs and deep diving crankbaits. Crappie are fair on live minnows and jigs. Catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers.


PALESTINE
Water lightly stained; 88–94 degrees; 5.30’ low. Black bass are good on medium crankbaits, Texas rigged worms and shakyheads. The shallow bite is improving. Crappie are good on minnows and jigs. Hybrid stripers are fair on slabs, Sassy Shad and live shad. White bass are fair to good on slabs and minnows. Catfish are good on prepared bait.


PALO DURO
Water off color; 86–89 degrees; 41.68’ low. No report available.


POSSUM KINGDOM
Water stained; 87–89 degrees; 8.43’ low. Black bass are good on topwaters early, later switching to drop shot rigs, Carolina rigs, Texas rigs and medium running shad pattern crankbaits. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs. White bass are fair to good on slabs and Little Georges. Striped bass are fair on live shad. Catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers.


PROCTOR
Water stained; 86–89 degrees; 10.09’ low. Black bass are good on chartreuse spinnerbaits and Rat–L–Traps. Striped bass are slow. White bass are slow. Crappie are slow. Channel and blue catfish are good on shrimp and stinkbait. Yellow catfish are fair on trotlines baited with shad.


RAY HUBBARD
Water fairly clear; 88–93 degrees; 5.12’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigged creature baits, finesse jigs and medium to deep crankbaits. Topwaters early around rip rap are producing. Crappie are fair on minnows and Road Runners. White bass are excellent on humps in 17–23 feet with hybrids mixed in. Catfish are good on prepared baits.


RAY ROBERTS
Water clear; 88–94 degrees; 3.73’ low. Black bass are fair on Gene Larew Salt Flickrs rigged on a shakyhead and 3/4oz. Revenge football head jigs in chameleon/chartreuse on main lake points with rock. Crappie are good early and late on jigs and minnows in brush in 20–25 feet. White bass are excellent – schooling early from the dam to the marina. Catfish are fair on Danny King’s punch bait over baited holes.


RICHLAND CHAMBERS
Water fairly clear; 88–93 degrees; 6.31’ low. Black bass are good on Texas rigged worms, deep crankbaits, topwaters and shakyheads around the deeper docks later in the day. White bass are fair on slabs and live shad. Hybrid striper are fair on slabs and live shad. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs. Catfish are fair on prepared bait and nightcrawlers.


SAM RAYBURN
Water lightly stained; 80–84 degrees; 11.93’ low. Black bass are good on watermelon soft plastic worms with chartreuse tails. White bass are slow. Crappie are fair on minnows over baited holes. Bream are fair on nightcrawlers. Catfish are good on trotlines baited with stinkbait and shrimp.


SOMERVILLE
Water murky; 84–87 degrees; 9.24’ low. Black bass are fair on small chartreuse spinnerbaits. Hybrid striper are slow. White bass are slow. Crappie are slow. Channel and blue catfish are good on trotlines and juglines baited with cut shad. Yellow catfish are slow.


SPENCE
83.48’ low. No report available.


STAMFORD
2.08’ low. No report available.


STEINHAGEN
1.70’ high. No report available.


STILLHOUSE
Water stained; 81–84 degrees; 15.16’ low. Black bass are good on minnows and small crankbaits. White bass are slow. Crappie are fair on minnows. Channel and blue catfish are good on stinkbait and shrimp. Yellow catfish are slow.


SWEETWATER
Water murky; 87–90 degrees; 12.56’ low. Black bass are fair on topwaters early, later switching to Texas rigs and weightless soft plastics. Crappie are fair on live minnows. Catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers.


TAWAKONI
Water fairly clear; 88–94 degrees; 5.81’ low. Black bass are good on topwaters early, later switching to black/blue Firewater 1/2oz. jigs, Texas rigged blue fleck worms and square bill crankbaits. Bladed jigs are producing on windier days. Crappie are fair on 1/16oz. curl tail grubs and small minnows on docks, bridge pilings and deep timber. White bass are excellent on white SSS Slabs and tailspins – schooling on points early and late. Striped bass and hybrid striper are good on 4” to 6” white or shad pattern Sassy Shad in the shallows early then suspending deep during the day – drifting live bait is also producing. Catfish are excellent in deep water drifting cut bait and fresh shad.


TEXOMA
Water fairly clear; 88–93 degrees; 6.68’ low. The lake is currently experiencing an outbreak of Blue–Green Algae. It is suggested that you check www.tpwd.state.tx.us/fishboat/fish/recreational/lakes/texoma/ prior to planning a trip to the lake to be informed of current conditions on the outbreak. A health advisory in place to avoid contact with the water in some areas.


TOLEDO BEND
Water stained; 79–82 degrees; 10.63’ low. Black bass are good on black/red flake craw worms early. Striped bass are slow. White bass are fair on Li’l Fishies. Crappie are fair on minnows over baited holes. Bream are good on crickets and nightcrawlers off docks in 4–5 feet. Channel and blue catfish are good on trotlines baited with live bait and liver. Yellow catfish are slow.


TRAVIS
Water stained; 82–85 degrees; 47.85’ low. Black bass are fair on white spinnerbaits and watermelon worms in 15–30 feet. Striped bass are slow. White bass are fair on chrome spoons in 5–15 feet. Crappie are slow. Channel and blue catfish are fair on perch and cut shad. Yellow catfish are slow.


WALTER E. LONG
Water stained. Black bass are fair on minnows. Hybrid striper are slow. White bass are slow. Crappie are slow. Channel and blue catfish are good on minnows, shrimp, and nightcrawlers. Yellow catfish are slow.


WEATHERFORD
Water fairly clear; 88–94 degrees; 6.55’ low. Black bass are good on shallow crankbaits, shakyheads and Texas rigs – best bite around deeper brush piles. Crappie are good on minnows and jigs in. Catfish are fair on prepared bait and cut shad. White bass are fair on slabs and live minnows.


WHITE RIVER
Water stained; 86–89 degrees; 22.69’ low. Black bass are fair on Texas rigs and spinnerbaits. Crappie are fair on live minnows. Walleye are fair on live bait. Channel catfish are fair to good on nightcrawlers.


WHITNEY
Water stained; 80–83 degrees; 15.30’ low. Black bass are fair on watermelon spinnerbaits and crankbaits. Striped bass are slow. White bass are fair on minnows. Crappie are fair on minnows. Catfish are good on shrimp and stinkbait.


WRIGHT PATMAN
Water lightly stained; 89–94 degrees; 4.05’ high. Black bass are good on Texas rigged worms, medium crankbaits and chatterbaits. Concentrate on deeper water later in the day. Carolina rigs are producing on brush piles. Crappie are fair on minnows and jigs. Catfish are fair to good on cut shad and prepared bait.



Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






ORWVFD Call Out Report Through August 2011


						Filed under: ORW Community News by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011





Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News


Comment 






Another Site for Fire Fighters Relief


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011




http://txwildfirerelief.org/
Ryan Holzaepfel, CEM
Chambers County
Emergency Management Coordinator
Fire Marshal
PO Box 957
Anahuac, TX  77514
Office:  409-267-2445
Fax:      409-267-4133
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






SLIDESHOW: Incredible Photos Show Wildfire Devastation in Texas


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011





This slideshow requires JavaScript.



Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Drop off Point in Chambers County to aid Firemen


						Filed under: Chambers County Texas, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011




The drop off points for any supplies, per the attached flier, will be the Chambers County Ag Extension Office location at 295 White Memorial Park Drive near Hankamer.
It is easy to find.  From I-10, take the SH61 exit and travel south.  Very shortly on your right you will see the White’s Park Community Building, arena, etc.  The Extension Office is located in the same parking lot as the Community Building.  Phone number:  409-374-2123.
Thanks,
 
Ryan Holzaepfel, CEM
Chambers County
Emergency Management Coordinator
Fire Marshal
PO Box 957
Anahuac, TX  77514
Office:  409-267-2445
Fax:      409-267-4133
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Chambers County Texas, Texas


Comment 






Jean L Epperson Book Signing and Meet and Greet at Old River-Winfree Founders Day October 7th and 8th!


						Filed under: Founders Day, History, Old River Country, Old River-Winfree, Old River-Winfree Founders Day, ORW Neighborhood Watch, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011





Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Founders Day, Historic Old River-Winfree, Old River-Winfree, Old River-Winfree Weather, ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






Firefighter in Need!  Can you help?


						Filed under: Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011





Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Texas


Comment 






RHSCC:  Keetch-Byram Drought Index (9.6.11)


						Filed under: Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011




Note:  Red shading indicates KDBI level over 750.
 



 
 
 









Keetch-Byram Drought Index 
 
KBDI levels and its relationship to expected fire potential are reflected in the following table:
 
• KBDI = 0 – 200: Soil moisture and large class fuel moistures are high and do not contribute much to fire intensity. Typical of spring dormant season following winter precipitation.
• KBDI = 200 – 400: Typical of late spring, early growing season. Lower
litter and duff layers are drying and beginning to contribute to fire intensity
• KBDI = 400 – 600: Typical of late summer, early fall. Lower litter and duff layers contribute to fire intensity and will burn actively.
 
• KBDI = 600 – 800: Often associated with more severe drought with increased wildfire occurrence. Intense, deep-burning fires with significant downwind spotting can be expected. Live fuels can also be expected to burn actively at these levels.
 









 
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Texas


Comment 






Texas Task Force 1 Deploys to Bastrop County


						Filed under: ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 7, 2011




Search teams to arrive in Bastrop on Wednesday morning
Tuesday, September 06, 2011  •  Austin, Texas  •  Press Release
Texas Task Force 1, the state’s elite search team, was deployed to assist local officials and first responders in Bastrop County. With ongoing fires across Texas, the governor also urged all individuals who have been evacuated from their homes to register themselves and their families with the American Red Cross’ Safe and Well program.
“These fierce fires near Bastrop have now become even more heartbreaking, as local officials today confirmed two deaths in the Bastrop area. To further support local efforts, I have requested that Texas Emergency Management Chief Nim Kidd deploy our state’s elite wide area search team, Texas Task Force 1,” Gov. Perry said. “I cannot emphasize enough to Texans in the impacted areas the importance of heeding all warnings from local officials, especially evacuation orders, as these fires are mean, swift and highly dangerous.”
Gov. Perry was briefed on the potential loss of life early Tuesday afternoon, and immediately requested that Chief Kidd deploy a Texas Task Force 1 leadership team to Bastrop to establish a preliminary operation. This team was on site in Bastrop on Tuesday. Based on the needs of local officials, a wide area search team consisting of approximately 100 members and nearly one dozen search canines will be in Bastrop Wednesday morning to work with the local incident management team and assist with search operations.
Texas Task Force 1 is a 600-member force that is nationally recognized for its unique search, rescue and recovery capabilities. It was deployed to New York City following the terrorist attack on 9/11, and to New Orleans following the landfall of Hurricane Katrina.
Additionally, to help friends and family locate loved ones who have been evacuated due to these wildfires, impacted Texans can register themselves on the Red Cross’ Safe and Well website at http://www.redcross.org/safeandwell by clicking on ‘List Yourself as Safe and Well,’ or by calling 1-800-RED CROSS (1-800-733-2767) from any phone. Individuals can also log on to register loved ones who may not have power or access to a computer, or search a list of registered names.
In the past seven days, the Texas Forest Service has responded to 181 fires that have burned more than 118,400 acres, including new fires in Bastrop, Travis, Henderson, Limestone, Caldwell, Colorado, Montgomery and Grimes counties, among others. TFS also continues to battle existing wildfires, including major fires in Palo Pinto, Briscoe, Coryell and Montague counties. Since the beginning of wildfire season, local and state firefighters have responded to more than 20,900 fires that have destroyed more than 1,000 homes and burned more than 3.6 million acres.
For more information on preparing for wildfire threats, please visithttp://governor.state.tx.us/wildfires.
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 






David’s Heart & Friends takes the Stage at ORWFD Saturday October 8th 6:00 p.m.


						Filed under: Chambers County Events, Founders Day, Old River-Winfree Founders Day, ORW Churches, ORW Community News, Texas by Moderator — 						Leave a comment 
September 6, 2011





Saturday Night at Old River-Winfree Founders Day, David’s Heart and a few friends take the Stage along with Claire Pentecost and trio! Jonathan Finney is the Assistant Worship Leader/Music Intern at Old River Baptist Church.  Claire is an inspired and inspirational soloist at Old River.  Not going to the Homecoming Prom?  You have a place to go now, and it’s free!  See the best Christian Talent around on October 7th and 8th.  Two stages on the Friday th 7th!

See all the events at www.orwfoundersday.com and click on Events
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterStumbleUponRedditDiggPrintEmail 

Tags: Chambers County Texas, Old River-Winfree, ORW Churches, ORW Community News, Texas


Comment 





« Older Entries






Search for:



  Blog Stats 
26,944 hits

  Recent Posts 
Boy Scout Pack 105 Presents the Mayor of Mont Belvieu with the Flag of Heroes
Gov. Perry: Images of September 11th are Forever in Our Minds
Tribute:  10th Anniversary of 9-11, We Will Never Forget!
Gov. Perry Announces Emergency Hotel Voucher Program for Victims of Bastrop County Fire
Aiding in the Texas Wildfires

Categories
Select Category
5K Run/Walk
America
Awards/Recognition
Barbers Hill Scholarship Fund
Birds of Old River Country
Boy Scouts
Buy/Sell/Trade/Lost/Found
Chambers County Events
Chambers County Texas
City Council
Cupcake Pie Cake Contest
Eye on Texas
Founders Day
Historical Reenactment
History
Laughter is the best medicine
MWCC Natural Beauty Pageant
Old River
Old River Country
Old River-Winfree
Old River-Winfree Founders Day
ORW Businesses
ORW Churches
ORW Community News
ORW Neighborhood Watch
Our Weather
Texas
Videos/Slideshows
Woodland Acres
Wounded Warrior Project


Archives  Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 September 2009 

Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 17 other followers








 






Friends & links

Old River-Winfree Founders Day
Old River-Winfree Founders Day Website
Round Robin – Cornell Lab of Ornithology
Blog at WordPress.com.
Blog at WordPress.com.







Pages

About
Birds of Old River Country







Monthly archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011






Blog at WordPress.com. | Theme: Motion by volcanic. Fonts on this blog.
[ Back to top ]


















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





