 TRLA Times



TRLA Times






Free Legal Resources for Victims of Texas Wildfires #txfire #centraltxfire
Posted September 7, 2011 by Texas RioGrande Legal Aid
Categories: Announcements, Austin, TRLA Offices


LAST UPDATED: SEPTEMBER 10, 2011 11:30 AM

There are numerous organizations offering free legal resources to help victims of the Texas wildfires with the legal issues they face in the aftermath of this disaster. Below is a list of resources we hope you find helpful:
Texas RioGrande Legal Aid Disaster Assistance Hotline: 1-866-757-1570
For help with legal issues related to the disaster such as insurance claims, price gouging, landlord-tenant disputes, replacing important legal documents, or obtaining disaster-related public benefits.  Hotline is staffed Monday through Friday. When lines are busy, callers will be able to leave their information and a TRLA staff member will return their call within 24 hours.
Texas RioGrande Legal Aid Austin Evening Legal Clinic
Mondays–Martin Jr. High (1601 Haskell St.)
Wednesdays–Webb Middle School (601 East St. Johns)
Clinics are held from 6pm to 7pm every Monday and Wednesday that Austin ISD has classes. All attendees who sign in by 7pm will be able to speak to someone regarding their legal issues that evening.
**TRLA hosts these clinics year-round for all legal issues. Wildfire evacuees in the Austin area are invited to attend.**
 Read the rest of this post »
 
Comments: Be the first to comment 


New Month Brings New Laws to Texas
Posted September 2, 2011 by Texas RioGrande Legal Aid
Categories: Announcements


September 1st marked an important day for Texas — more than 700 new laws passed during the last legislative session officially went into effect. Many of the laws affect important civil legal issues important to low-income Texans including laws that expand protective orders to pets and victims of teen dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
A few great overviews of the new laws are below:
Texas Tribune: 31 Days, 31 Ways
Ft. Worth Star Telegram: Hundreds of New Texas Laws Go Into Effect Thursday
El Paso Times: New state, local laws take effect this week
 
Comments: Be the first to comment 


First El Paso Art Show a Success
Posted August 22, 2011 by Texas RioGrande Legal Aid
Categories: El Paso, TRLA Events, TRLA Offices


TRLA’s El Paso office was full of art lovers this past Friday as the legal aid and art communities came together for the first collaboration between Texas RioGrande Legal Aid and 2nd Floor Contemporary Arts. The art show profiled five local artists and welcomed the public into TRLA’s offices for some food and fun.
The event was an outstanding success.  Don’t worry if you weren’t able to stop by this time — the next art show will be announced soon!
Check out more photos of the event below (courtesy of EurydiceS photography) Read the rest of this post »
 
Comments: 1 Comment 


« Older Entries




Follow Us
   

  Recent Stories

Free Legal Resources for Victims of Texas Wildfires #txfire #centraltxfire
New Month Brings New Laws to Texas
First El Paso Art Show a Success
Join Us In El Paso
The 2011 Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Cross Training





Search by Category

Select Category
Announcements
Current Lawsuits
Funding Crisis
Just for Fun
Law Clerk Chronicles
Pro Bono
   Pro Bono Superstar
Success Stories
TRLA Awards & Recognitions
TRLA Events
TRLA Offices
   Alpine
   Austin
   Edinburg
   El Paso
   Laredo
   MLAF
   San Antonio
   Sinton
   SMLS (Nashville)
TRLA Supporters
TRLA Times
TRLA TV


 



Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: Sapphire by Michael Martine. 	















