Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Gov. Rick Perry”
        
                                



Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:51 AM





Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster School Road near Needville, Texas, on Wednesday afternoon, Sept. 7, 2011. (AP Photo/The Courier, Patric Schneider)Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.


            Continue reading Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires .
        





Texas Fire May Keep Rick Perry from Wednesday's Presidential GOP Debate 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:12 PM





Gov. Rick Perry holds a news conference to discuss wildfires in Texas on Monday. Perry has curtailed his campaigning to deal with the fires. (Eric Gay / Associated Press / September 6, 2011)Citing the press of business from wildfires ranging across Texas, Gov. Rick Perry, the front-runner in most polls for the GOP presidential nomination, on Tuesday left it up in the air as to whether he will attend Wednesday's Republican candidates debate.


            Continue reading Texas Fire May Keep Rick Perry from Wednesday's Presidential GOP Debate .
        





Joel Osteen: Lakewood Church Is Evangelical, Not Political 


    
                By UCN on August 31, 2011  8:27 AM





Joel Osteen rarely talks politics, even when pushed during TV interviews to condemn gay marriage, get angry about sin or take a stand on current issues, he shows restraint and focuses on the positive.


            Continue reading Joel Osteen: Lakewood Church Is Evangelical, Not Political .
        





Dominionism: Belief that Christians Plot to Rule the World 'Overblown'


    
                By UCN on August 18, 2011  4:19 PM





Here we go again. The Republican primaries are six months away, and already news stories are raising fears on the left about "crazy Christians."


            Continue reading Dominionism: Belief that Christians Plot to Rule the World 'Overblown'.
        





Iowa Straw Poll Finally Here as GOP Candidates Await Results 


    
                By UCN on August 13, 2011  5:18 AM





Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, second left, photographs Republican presidential candidate and businessman Herman Cain after he was interviewed by Sean Hannity of FOX News at the Iowa State Fair in Des Moines, Iowa, Friday, Aug. 12, 2011. At rear left is Sen. Steve King, R-Iowa, and Janet Huckabee. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)After months of laying the groundwork, the first test of the Republican presidential candidates' viability is finally here.


            Continue reading Iowa Straw Poll Finally Here as GOP Candidates Await Results .
        





The Response Attendees See Prayer Rally as Just a Beginning 


    
                By UCN on August  7, 2011  1:23 PM





Texas Gov. Rick Perry (L) speaks on stage alongside Rev. C.L. Jackson, of Houston's Pleasant Grove Missionary Baptist Church (C) and Alice Patterson, Texas State Coordinator for The Response USA at the non-denominational prayer and fasting event, entitled "The Response" at Reliant Stadium August 6, 2011 in Houston, Texas. (August 5, 2011 - Photo by Brandon Thibodeaux/Getty Images North America)If you ask the organizers of the large-scale Christian prayer rally held by Gov. Rick Perry Saturday, they'll tell you, officially, that The Response is over. There are no additional events, no spinoff ministries from the day of prayer at Reliant Stadium.


            Continue reading The Response Attendees See Prayer Rally as Just a Beginning .
        





Rick Perry Finds His Role, Will Speak at Prayer Rally 


    
                By UCN on August  5, 2011  5:56 PM





A sign outside Houston's Reliant Stadium lists Saturday's prayer rally, The Response. Gov. Rick Perry organized the event along with Christian conservatives. (THE ASSOCIATED PRESS/DAVID J. PHILLIP)On the eve of the big day, let me be the first to inform you: Gov. Rick Perry will pray during his prayer rally.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Finds His Role, Will Speak at Prayer Rally .
        





Religion's Role in Politics Is Here to Stay 


    
                By UCN on August  5, 2011  6:06 AM





The country calls itself "one nation under God," and approaching the 2012 presidential elections, Americans want a leader under God.


            Continue reading Religion's Role in Politics Is Here to Stay .
        





Critics Say Rick Perry Is Taking His Faith Too Far with Prayer Rally 


    
                By UCN on August  5, 2011  5:53 AM





A sign outside Houston's Reliant Stadium lists Saturday's prayer rally, The Response. Gov. Rick Perry organized the event along with Christian conservatives. (THE ASSOCIATED PRESS/DAVID J. PHILLIP)Gov. Rick Perry has never been hesitant about proclaiming his deep devotion to God and the lifelong "walk of faith" that has carried him from his boyhood on a West Texas tenant farm to the state's highest office.


            Continue reading Critics Say Rick Perry Is Taking His Faith Too Far with Prayer Rally .
        





Romney, Bachmann, Santorum Sign NOM Marriage Pledge


    
                By UCN on August  4, 2011  5:31 PM





Republican presidential candidate and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney holds up Sarah Winick, 7 months, during a campaign stop at Valley Plaza shopping center on July 20, 2011 in Los Angeles, California."[The pledge] commits the three candidates fully to the hottest front in the culture wars." - Ben Smith, Politico


            Continue reading Romney, Bachmann, Santorum Sign NOM Marriage Pledge.
        





With Texas Prayer Rally, American Family Association Mixes Politics and Faith 


    
                By UCN on August  4, 2011  6:54 AM





Bryan Fischer, doing his daily talk radio show, has become the public face of the American Family Association. (Josh Anderson for The New York Times)To its admirers on the religious right, the American Family Association is a stalwart leader in a last-ditch fight to save America's Christian culture and the values of traditional families. 


            Continue reading With Texas Prayer Rally, American Family Association Mixes Politics and Faith .
        





Herman Cain Wins Denver Straw Poll, Rick Perry Second 


    
                By UCN on July 31, 2011  5:20 PM





Gov. Rick Perry placed a distant second in the Denver Straw Poll this weekend, a contest that GOP presidential hopeful Herman Cain easily won after a rousing speech and a direct plea for support Sunday.


            Continue reading Herman Cain Wins Denver Straw Poll, Rick Perry Second .
        





Federal Judge Tosses Out Atheist's Lawsuit Against Rick Perry's Prayer Day


    
                By UCN on July 28, 2011  7:20 PM





A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit that sought to stop Gov. Rick Perry from sponsoring a national day of Christian prayer and fasting, ruling Thursday that the group of atheists and agnostics did not have legal standing to sue.


            Continue reading Federal Judge Tosses Out Atheist's Lawsuit Against Rick Perry's Prayer Day.
        





Judge to Hold Hearing on Rick Perry's Prayer Rally 


    
                By UCN on July 27, 2011  9:42 PM





U.S. District Judge Gray Miller in Houston will hold a hearing Thursday to determine whether a court injunction should bar Gov. Rick Perry from promoting or participating in his Aug. 6 prayer event in Reliant Stadium.


            Continue reading Judge to Hold Hearing on Rick Perry's Prayer Rally .
        





Texas Schools To Revisit Evolution Debate Under New Leadership 


    
                By UCN on July 21, 2011  4:20 AM





Barbara Cargill, State Board of Education.The Texas State Board of Education meets this week for the first time under its conservative new chairwoman appointed by Gov. Rick Perry and is expected to rekindle the debate over teaching evolution and the origin of life in public schools.


            Continue reading Texas Schools To Revisit Evolution Debate Under New Leadership .
        





Rick Perry Feeling "Called" to Run for President 


    
                By UCN on July 17, 2011 12:55 PM





The Texan with the slight Southern drawl who has called dozens of top Iowa Republican activists in the past few weeks sounds more and more like he's about to run for president.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Feeling "Called" to Run for President .
        





Will Rick Perry's Faith Talk Help or Hurt Him? 


    
                By UCN on July 14, 2011  7:14 AM





Employing deeply religious language that national experts say affords both power and peril for his political career, Gov. Rick Perry in late May told a group of East Texas business leaders that he was "called to the ministry" at age 27, suggested that the governor's office was his pulpit and that God put him "in this place at this time to do his will."


            Continue reading Will Rick Perry's Faith Talk Help or Hurt Him? .
        





Atheist Group Files Lawsuit to Stop Rick Perry's Prayer Day


    
                By UCN on July 13, 2011  2:45 PM





Federal Lawsuit Filed to Stop Gov. Perry Prayer Rally: MyFoxDFW.comA group of atheists and agnostics filed a federal lawsuit on Wednesday seeking to stop an evangelical Christian prayer event next month that was proposed and is endorsed by Texas' governor.


            Continue reading Atheist Group Files Lawsuit to Stop Rick Perry's Prayer Day.
        





Group Sues to Stop Texas from Passing Pre-Abortion Sonograms Law 


    
                By UCN on July  2, 2011  4:01 AM





It says Texas law is too vague and violates free speech


            Continue reading Group Sues to Stop Texas from Passing Pre-Abortion Sonograms Law .
        





Texas Set to Become Next State to Defund Planned Parenthood


    
                By UCN on June 28, 2011  8:15 AM





The Texas state legislature has voted to defund abortion providers. (AP Photo)The Texas Legislature approved a bill Monday that would both compel the state to push the Obama administration to convert Texas's Medicaid program into a block grant and defund abortion providers like Planned Parenthood.


            Continue reading Texas Set to Become Next State to Defund Planned Parenthood.
        





                                    1 2  Next >












 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










