Moe Lane » 2011 » June








Home
About
Liber Licentiae Moeticae
GURPS 4E Thumbnail Alternate Earths.
Webcomics I admit reading.
Filthy Lucre.  Filthy. Lucre.













Moe Lane
I am an evil giraffe. So "don't call my bluff."

















         Jun
30
         2011         


--












“I Fought The Law.”


I Fought The Law, Bobby Fuller Four
Well… no, I didn’t.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: Bobby Fuller Four, I Fought The Law 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


6












#rsrh Thad McCotter (R, MI) to run for President?

Well.
That should be interesting.
Yes.  Interesting.
Moe Lane
PS: What?  No.  No, I like Thad… about 70, 80% of the time.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: thad mccotter 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


1












#rsrh A head’s-up on the Obama fundraising thing.

I’ve noticed that folks like Jim Geraghty and Legal Insurrection are pointing out that the President’s fund-raising team is currently acting as if they’re absolutely desperate for last-minute contributions to Obama’s reelection campaign.  Like Jim, I’d like to remind folks that back in 2008 the Obama campaign notoriously poor-mouthed its fundraising every month… so don’t be surprised if they try this sort of thing again.  As I’ve noted before, these people aren’t what you’d call real original.  We’ll know in a couple of weeks what the real totals are.
Not that it matters as much this go-round, thanks to the Supreme Court reestablishing some basic free-speech sanity with Citizens United…
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: 2012 elections, fundraising 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


1












“It’s a good life…”

“…having idiots hate you.”
Moe Lane
PS: That link is not to what just caused my wife to shake her head and mock-sadly tell my eldest, “Son, Daddy is a troll.”  Which I totally am, by the way.
No, that’s not the link, either.  The link is being suppressed because… well, because I’m a troll.  A bit of a sadist, too.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics,Politics | Tags: it's a good life having idiots hate you 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


6












#rsrh The failure of the Activist Left…

…in one handy sentence:
Their questions, about Obama’s economic appointments and about his  messaging problems, all began with some variation of “I’m going to vote  for Obama again, and work for him, but …”
Let me channel the administration’s effective response to any question that starts in such a fashion: 

Really?

Then shut up.

Get out your wallet.

Sit down.

Do as you’re bid.

Say “Thank you” afterward.

 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: 2012 elections, barack obama 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


1












Fourth of July: REPUBLICAN BREEDING GROUND!!!!!

I suspect that the Democratic party probably doesn’t want to ever see this sentence from a Harvard statistical survey appear in a news story:
Taken together, the results indicate that Fourth of July celebrations in the United States shape the nation’s political landscape by forming beliefs and increasing participation, primarily in favor of the Republican party.
…for fairly obvious reasons .  Short version: going to Fourth of July celebrations (using a statistical rule of thumb* of good weather = participation) as a child results in an increased possibility of voting Republican as an adult (it apparently doesn’t move the needle at all when it comes to voting Democratic).  Oh, and progressives are why the Fourth became a public secular holiday in the first place**.  Lastly: if you want to zap your kids into patriotism and/or Republicanism, the key dates to get them to a parade are from 7 to 10 for later partisan identification, and 15 to 18 for increased voter participation. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: damned lies, fourth of july, independence day, lies, patriotism, republican party, statistics, these colors don't run 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


2












#rsrh Does Dick Durbin LIKE tormenting kids?

I mean, it’s kind of cruel to lie and tell a bunch of foreign-born young people (illegal aliens, to be precise) that they, too could be President some day.

Because, well, they can’t.  They’re not native born citizens.  Which Dick knows; indeed, he probably has that portion of the Constitution freaking memorized by now, given how often his party has been screaming about the Dread Birther Menace since 2008. There’s really no excuse to get that wrong if you’re a sitting Senator, in other words.   (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: dick durbin, dream act 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
30
         2011         


5












Mark Halperin calls Obama a dick on TV.

I was going to say ‘national TV,’ except that it was just MSNBC.

Bad Mark Halperin!  BAD!  No biscuit!
Moe Lane
PS: Personally, I would have gone with ‘putz.’
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: dick, mark halperin, president obama 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
29
         2011         


--












“Norwegian Wood.”


The D&D filk version of this is, alas, unavailable.

 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: norwegian wood, the beatles 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
29
         2011         


6












Gone Lovecraftin’.

Went from watching The Stand to now watching Colour from the Dark.  All hail the awesome power of Netflix; it’s certainly easier on my storage space situation.
Still waiting for The Whisperer in Darkness to come out, though.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: colour from the dark 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
29
         2011         


8












#rsrh Amazon ready to end California affiliate program.

A friend and colleague of mine just got this email:

Subject: Notice of Contract Termination Due to Potential New California Law
Hello,
For  well over a decade, the Amazon Associates Program has worked with  thousands of California residents. Unfortunately, a potential new law  that may be signed by Governor Brown compels us to terminate this  program for California-based participants. It specifically imposes the  collection of taxes from consumers on sales by online retailers –  including but not limited to those referred by California-based  marketing affiliates like you – even if those retailers have no physical  presence in the state.
We oppose this bill because it is  unconstitutional and counterproductive. It is supported by big-box  retailers, most of which are based outside California, that seek to harm  the affiliate advertising programs of their competitors. Similar  legislation in other states has led to job and income losses, and  little, if any, new tax revenue. We deeply regret that we must take this  action.
As a result, we will terminate contracts with all  California residents that are participants in the Amazon Associates  Program as of the date (if any) that the California law becomes  effective. We will send a follow-up notice to you confirming the  termination date if the California law is enacted. In the event that the  California law does not become effective before September 30, 2011, we  withdraw this notice. As of the termination date, California residents  will no longer receive advertising fees for sales referred to Amazon.com [ http://www.amazon.com/ ], Endless.com [ http://www.endless.com/ ], MYHABIT.COM [ http://www.myhabit.com/ ] or SmallParts.com [ http://www.smallparts.com/ ]. Please be assured that all qualifying advertising fees earned on or  before the termination date will be processed and paid in full in  accordance with the regular payment schedule.
You are receiving  this email because our records indicate that you are a resident of  California. If you are not currently a resident of California, or if you  are relocating to another state in the near future, you can manage the  details of your Associates account here [ https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/gp/associates/network/your-account/payee-info.html ]. And if you relocate to another state in the near future please contact us [ https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/gp/associates/contact?subject=&ie=UTF8 ] for reinstatement into the Amazon Associates Program.
To  avoid confusion, we would like to clarify that this development will  only impact our ability to offer the Associates Program to California  residents and will not affect their ability to purchase from Amazon.com [ http://www.amazon.com/ ], Endless.com [ http://www.endless.com/ ], MYHABIT.COM [ http://www.myhabit.com/ ] or SmallParts.com [ http://www.smallparts.com/ ].
We  have enjoyed working with you and other California-based participants  in the Amazon Associates Program and, if this situation is rectified,  would very much welcome the opportunity to re-open our Associates  Program to California residents. We are also working on alternative ways  to help California residents monetize their websites and we will be  sure to contact you when these become available.
Regards,
The Amazon Associates Team
 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics,Politics | Tags: amazon tax, amazon.com, California 
Share on Facebook














         Jun
29
         2011         


4












Obama’s class warfare… against Obama’s stimulus program.

Even for Barack Obama, this is simultaneously: shameless; and clueless.
I’ve said to Republican leaders, ‘You go talk to your  constituents  and ask them, “Are you willing to compromise your kids’  safety so some  corporate-jet owner can get a tax break?” ‘ ”
Just in case any  viewer missed his class-clashing message, Obama  referred to  corporate-jet owners at least three more times before he  took his second  question.
It’s shameless because President Obama has only one rhetorical trick,  and that’s to demonize everybody who disagrees with whatever faux-Hegelian position he’s ended up taking on any given day.  It’s particularly clueless because what the  President apparently doesn’t know is that the latest iteration of the  tax break in question was put into place as part of Barack Obama’s own  2009 “stimulus.”
Just a few months after lawmakers scolded auto executives  for flying to Washington in private jets, Congress approved a tax break  in the stimulus package to help businesses buy their own planes.
The incentive — first used to help plane makers recover from the  2001 terror attacks — sharply reduces the up front tax bill for  companies who buy assets like business planes.
 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: barack obama, class warfare, classless, corporate jets, demonization, stimulus 
Share on Facebook












Older Posts »


























 ARE YOU LOOKING AT COLLEGE TEXTBOOK PRICES, AND HAVING A CORONARY?  CLICK HERE.




Contact me.






Amount




--

The link above goes to the account paying site fees.






Blogroll

A Chequer-Board of Nights and Days (Updated)
A Conservative Lesbian
Age of Sail
Baseball Crank
Blog of Much Holding
Blueshelled
Confessions of a Political Junkie
David Thompson
Fausta’s Blog
Foundation
Hawk’s Plateau
Hickpolitics
Jeff Emanuel
Kevin Holtsberry
Liber Ex Machina
Lileks
Little Miss Attila
Markets & Policy
NTCNews
Piece of Work in Progress
Publius Forum
Rathergate (In Memoriam)


Contributors

Countup from Dystopia
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Humor

Cracked.com
Lowering the Bar
The Manolo
TV Tropes
Websnark
Weekly World News


Politics

Ace of Spades
ActiCons
Barack Obama’s Teleprompter’s Blog
Big Hollywood
Camille Paglia
Conservative Grapevine
Deceiver.com
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
IMAO
Instapundit
Jim Treacher
Jules Crittenden
Legal Insurrection
Mickey Kaus
Protein Wisdom
Reason Hit & Run
Red Dog Report
RedState
Right Wing News
The Daily Beast
The Gormogons
The New Ledger
The Other McCain
The Skepticians
What’s Wrong with the World


Reciprocal

American Elephants
Apropos of Nothing
BigGator5
HotMES
Point of a gun
Pragmatic American
The Skepticrats
The Sundries Shack
Track a ‘Crat


The Glorious Moeticae Family Empire

Liber Licentiae Moeticae
Mi Contra Fa (My wife’s site)
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Recent Comments Moe_Lane: You seem to be under the impression that Krugman’s head being filled with cheese would downgrade his...
Kresh: I suppose there’s easier ways of saying “I warned you about the aliens because they’re here...
jetty: Too bad that the Dems don’t control both the House and Senate – they could just deem it passed,...
Demosthenes: We have to pass the bill so we can find out who wrote it.
Catseye: Everyone is asleep, I don’t want to wake them up, but that hurt. It still does, it always will. Ah the...
Moe_Lane: Mike: Apparently Obama does.
Mike: So, you don’t believe in passing a bill without either reading it or have the paper necessary to sign it?
Catseye: Krugman. The Capering, Gibbering, Fool for the Left has managed to Finally outdo himself. That is all...
 Twittermoelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY September 12, 2011moelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY […]moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz September 12, 2011moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz […]moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. September 12, 2011moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. […] Technorati Profile








The background is from Maxfield Parrish's Ecstasy, and is (to the best to my knowledge) in the public domain.
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Tag Cloudbarack obama
book of the week
California
congress
cpac
damned lies
dccc
democratic party
democrats
dnc
doom
elections
Florida
harry reid
health care
illinois
illinois combine
israel
joe biden
lies
massachusetts
missouri
movie of the week
nancy pelosi
new jersey
new york
nrcc
obama
obamacare
ohio
pennsylvania
qotd
rasmussen
sarah palin
senate
statistics
stimulus
tea parties
tea party
texas
that woman
unemployment
virginia
webcomics
wisconsin












Site by Neil Stevens
 | Theme by TheBuckmaker.com






