Heavy Rain as Storm System Crosses South | Today News



Home



Today News

 
International – Breaking, World, Business, Sports, Entertainment and Video News. 
			







Entertainment

Sports

Sci/Tech

U.S.

World









								Sep							

								6							


Heavy Rain as Storm System Crosses South









The slow-moving remnants of Tropical Storm Lee brought heavy rain across the South on Monday and whipped up high winds, possibly tornadoes, that damaged dozens of Georgia homes as the system pushed farther inland.
In Mississippi, a man was swept away by floodwaters after trying to cross a swollen creek, while the authorities called off the search for a missing swimmer presumed dead off Alabama. The system was sweeping through Alabama and pushing into Tennessee and Georgia by the evening.
Strong wind, possibly tornadoes, ripped off siding and shingles and sent trees crashing through roofs in Cherokee County, Ga., about 30 miles north of Atlanta. The Georgia Emergency Management Agency reported about 100 homes damaged there, but no major injuries.
Tornadoes that caused minor damage were also reported in Alabama. Numerous roads were flooded in the Birmingham, Ala., and Chattanooga, Tenn., areas. More than seven inches of rain had fallen in Chattanooga.
In areas of Louisiana and Mississippi that took the brunt of the storm over the weekend, thousands remained without power. The storm’s center came ashore Sunday in Louisiana, bringing up to a foot of rain to parts of New Orleans. Despite some street flooding, officials said New Orleans’s 24-pump flood-control system was doing its job.
The rain had stopped in the Gulf of Mexico, allowing workers on oil and gas rigs to restart operations on Monday.







 Tags: Alabama, Georgia, List of storms in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, Mississippi, New Orleans



Posted by admin
U.S. 
Subscribe to RSS feed





Leave a Reply Cancel reply

 Required fields are marked *Your email address will never be published or shared. Name *
Email *
Website
Comment  




 






Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (97)
 August 2011  (181)
 July 2011  (165)
 June 2011  (92)
 May 2011  (272)
 April 2011  (425)
 March 2011  (43)

 



















 


 

  Today News 
Opera review: ‘Heart of a Soldier’(Photos)
A murky Oscar picture at Toronto
Acer And AT&T To Offer Iconia Tab A501 With 4G Connectivity
Hacker Rattles Security Circles
Stosur family numbed by daughter’s U.S. Open success
Cubs Game Day: Cubs-Mets go into 11th inning
Casey Anthony trial costs: How much she’ll pay is up to judge | Video
Gay marriage ban debated in North Carolina
One of Qaddafi’s Sons Flees to Niger as New Leaders Focus on Next Steps
77 U.S. troops injured in Taliban truck bombing(Photo-Video)







RSS





Load Times Plugin made by Cheap Web Hosting
