Texas Wildfire Relief Efforts | Bloggers without Borders
 
 

























Home
About Us

Bios
History


Contact
What We Do
How You Can Help
Projects

Current Projects
Completed Projects
Submit a Project Idea


BwoB Blog

News/Updates


FAQs
Media Mentions
 
















 












KitchenAid Giveaway Winners and Some News
Eat and Support Farmers











Texas Wildfire Relief Efforts
By ivoryhut On 7 September 2011  · 8 Comments 






Written by Missy Stevens (@Missy_Stevens) of Wonder, Friend
Photograph by Deanna Roy
 
 
Texas is burning.
After the driest, hottest summer in almost a century, high winds sparked fires across the state on Sunday. One wildfire alone has burned over 34,000 acres, destroyed 600 homes and caused the complete evacuation of 20 neighborhoods. Steiner Ranch, an Austin subdivision of nearly 5,000 homes, was completely evacuated for 48 hours. During that time, 24 homes burned to the ground, and approximately 30 more were severely damaged.
That’s just two of the fires. There are so many wildfires burning that at one point Monday, a leading source for fire-related news was unable to keep count. Thousands of Texans are without homes today. Countless more are facing major clean-up efforts in homes that may have been spared destruction but are still damaged. Two deaths have been confirmed.
As of this writing, the fires are still burning. The largest is only 15 percent contained. Others have been contained, or extinguished, but still have potential for flare-ups. We cannot yet know the extent of the damage our state will suffer. But we can know this: the clean-up and rebuilding effort will not be a one-week, one-month or even one-year event.
It’s a tough time for Texas, the state facing a lengthy rebuilding and recovery process. And Austin-area bloggers had a choice: watch, in horror, from the safety of our homes, feeling helpless; or be one of the voices calling for action.
We chose the latter.
Austin—and all of Texas, for that matter—is an amazing community of people looking out for each other. Within hours of the fires breaking out, charitable and religious groups across the city launched relief efforts. There are so many groups doing so many incredible things, it’s difficult to quantify.
And yet, many of us heard people say, “I want to help, but I don’t know where to start.”
With something of this magnitude, it is often difficult to figure out what the immediate needs are, and how to meet those needs. Austin-area bloggers decided that we could help raise and maintain awareness of ongoing relief efforts.
We have started a collective endeavor under the hash tag #TXBlogFireRelief. Together, we are gathering information about relief activities, and sharing what we learn with our social networks. We are writing, tweeting, and posting Facebook messages about relief efforts as we learn of them.
This week’s most immediate needs include food, water, and hygiene items for firefighters and evacuees. As the weeks go on, we expect that needs will change and there will be more focus on rebuilding and recovery. Our goal is to post updates throughout this week, and then follow up over the coming months (and years?) with new relief information.
Austin bloggers are also coming together to host a benefit and donation drive this weekend. The women of LiveMom.com, Free Fun in Austin, A Family Village and Mama on the Verge are hosting an Austin Family Brunch at Joe’s Place; other area bloggers are helping to promote (and planning to attend!). Everyone is invited for an affordable brunch and entertainment.
As bloggers, we have a unique voice in our communities, and we’ve embraced this opportunity to raise awareness for Texas wildfire relief efforts. We thank you, Bloggers Without Borders, for helping us spread the word.
Current needs include:
	•	Hygiene and household items, such as soap, shampoo, deodorant, bedding, and cleaning supplies, for evacuees.
	•	New (packaged) socks and underwear of all sizes for men, women, children.
	•	Individually-packaged snacks and energy bars, water, hand wipes, eye drops, and saline solution for the firefighters.
	•	Monetary donations.
For more information about the organizations that are meeting these needs and how you can get involved or make donations, please take a look at the Texas bloggers link-up for fire relief efforts. You can also follow the hashtag #TXBlogFireRelief on Twitter for up-to-date links and information. 
 
 



								Tagged with: #TxBlogFireRelief 
							









						If you enjoyed this article, please consider sharing it!	
					













8 Responses to Texas Wildfire Relief Efforts




 Maggy@ThreeManyCooks says: 

			7 September 2011 at 11:59 am 
Thanks for taking the time to write this post, Missy. And for sharing with us a few ways that we can help, even from the other side of the country. I love seeing bloggers coming together and using this online community as a way to spread the word. We are thinking of Texas and praying for those who have been effected by the wildfires.

Reply 





 junk gypsy says: 

			7 September 2011 at 12:09 pm 
ThANKS so much for this post! texas our texas is in need of lots of help!! we’re donating $1 of every sale to the wildfire relief fund!! and sending lots of prayers and thoughts and rain dances out daily!!! XOOXOXOXOX! the junkgypsies

Reply 





 Christina says: 

			7 September 2011 at 12:12 pm 
Super article Missy. What a tremendous effort for a tremendous catastrophe!

Reply 





 Amber | Bluebonnets & Brownies says: 

			7 September 2011 at 2:22 pm 
As a displaced Texan, and sister-in-law of a San Antonio firefighter, this entire situation makes my heart hurt. I’ll do anything I can to help. Thinking about an auction of Mexican Wedding Cookies and maybe pralines. I’ve never made them, but there’s always an impetus to start, right?

Reply 





 Lauren {Adventures in Flip Flops} says: 

			7 September 2011 at 3:53 pm 
Hey everyone! I’m from the Houston area and we have/had a fire about 45 minutes up the road from me, so I am also planning a post for this effort! When I get it up and running I am going have a donation drive in conjunction with a few other bloggers. If it’s cool, I’m planning on giving your link as well as a link to the Texas blogger link up. 
Thank you so much for everything you’re doing, and please let me know if there is any other way I can help!

Reply 





 Deanie Mills says: 

			7 September 2011 at 6:15 pm 
We lost our 100-acre ranch, a horse barn, pens, fences, and all the grass in the West Texas wildfires of April 15 (the Cooper Mountain Fire, specifically)–we were only able to save our home because my husband and a fellow rancher fought the flames back from it.  I had one hour to pack up my whole life–we raised our children in this 107-year old house and have lived here 30 years. I wrote about it on my blog at http://deaniemills.com  “If You Had One Hour to Pack Up Your Whole Life, What Would You Take?”
Anyway–my point is that the items you list–I notice you did not mention any pet supplies, and believe me, when you are grabbing things in a rush, the first thing you reach for (provided your kids are grown and gone, as mine are)–are beloved pets. Sometimes there may not be time to get, say, cat litter, litter boxes, scoops, cat food, and/or dog food, and water containers.
I appreciate this on behalf of the victims in the TX Hill Country because I can imagine only too well their heartache. You will all be in my prayers and thoughts. God bless you.

Reply 





 Catherine says: 

			8 September 2011 at 1:01 am 
Amy’s Ice Cream (@amysicecreams) has also been collecting stuff and giving it to families in need.  They’ve been saying Gatorade and school supplies are in highest demand.

Reply 





 Jessica says: 

			8 September 2011 at 12:02 pm 
I’m not a blogger, but I’m part of a collective of bakers in Austin who are having a benefit bake sale this Saturday. We raised $900 for Japanese tsunami relief in six hours this spring, and I’m hoping we will greatly exceed that to help those affected by fires in our own backyard. Info is can be found via @austinchocolate or  facebook.com/objectsofconfection. Thanks to everyone who is reaching out… it’s going to take all of us to help our friends and neighbors rebuild their lives.

Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  
























Follow Bloggers without Borders 




Sign up for our mailing list


Email Address :




Click here to donate 






If you would like your donation to be applied toward a specific project, please specify the project in the transaction page. Thank you.
Recent TweetsNo public Twitter messages. 






 




 





































"Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page.— bloggerswob 






 
 
 















Pages
#afundforjennie Auction listAbout UsBWOB BadgesContactDine In IreneFAQsHomeHow You Can HelpSubmit a Project IdeaWhat We DoWhy




The Latest



Dine In Irene
   Project Creator: GrowNYC Main Contact Person: Jeanne Hodesh of Greenmarket […]







More

								Thanks for dropping by! Feel free to join the discussion by leaving comments, and stay updated by subscribing to the RSS feed.							





								© 2011 Bloggers without Borders							






































