2011  February | Morning in Arizona




Home
About



Morning in Arizona
Arizona: Open for Business





AZ a Catalyst in States’ Rights Activity
Arizona took the lead in States’ Rights activity last spring by introducing SB 1070. After all the negative press, naysayers, and doom and gloomers, the SB1070 passed and a good part of the bill is already in effect.  I am confidently expecting the entire bill to clear the Supreme Court. And 25 States have followed [...]




What’s New in the Arizona Legislature
MANY GREAT BILLS IN THE AZ LEGISLATURE: The following are just a few of the outstanding bills that are now being voted at the Arizona State Legislature. To get additional information, go to the Arizona State Legislature website. The following are some of my bills: SB 1546 (eminent domain on federal property) This bill allows [...]


Knock, Knock–Anybody Home at the White House?
One has to remember the 3 AM political ads with the phone ringing at the White House and no one picking it up. Well, here we are in Feb., 2011 and the phone is ringing and, yup, there is no one answering it. http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/on-the-record/transcript/ice-agent039s-killing-mex\ ico-wakeup-call-washington-border-security-and-violence Will Obama pick up the phone when the shooting starts [...]


The Arizona Geological Survey’s Treasure Trove of Hidden “Gems”
You might think that a department of state government with as dry a name as “The Arizona Geological Survey” would be the last place that you would find a witty, informative, “layman’s term”, passionate, blogger. Your probably thinking of reams of mine data, unintelligible maps, graphs, charts, and obtuse scientific terms, surrounded by bibliographical references. [...]


The Frailty of our Energy Systems (Part Deux)
To followup on Vince Leach’s recent post regarding the frailty of our energy systems, we were pleased to see Senate Bill 1393 pass out of the Committee on Border Security, Federalism, and States Sovereignty, yesterday, Thursday 02/10/11. This bill, with Senator Sylvia Allen as the primary sponsor makes the following central point.  “Any effort by [...]


Cold Snap Points to the Frailty of our Energy Systems
As the temperature plunged last week, up to 19,000 Tucson homes, businesses, and schools lost fuel for heating and running operations. Calls also went out in NM and Texas over the concern of high gas usage pushing the current distribution system beyond its capability.  What would have been the ramifications if this happened in all [...]


Cotton, Cattle, Copper, Citrus, Climate
AZ has the resources to increase good paying jobs in our State.  AZ was built on the 5 Cs: Cattle, Copper, Cotton, Citrus and Climate.  No need to reinvent the wheel with big expensive government programs.  Just take what is given to us and make it work. So how to make it work?  These action [...]


Arizona’s Next Crisis: Mexico – A Failing Nation State
Meanwhile, Secretary Napolitano scornfully repeats her professional left mantra that the border is secure and anyone who says otherwise is trying to score cheap political points. Too bad Rancher Bob Krentz and Agent Terry, among others, cannot respond to her politically despicable deceit.


Arizona Should Follow This European Lead
Arizona should look closely at renewable energy models that are abundant in Europe.  Most importantly, AZ should look at what is now happening to the financial structures of these green industries. Quotes from Canada’ Globe and Mail 1/26/11 as follows: “The Spanish and Germans are doing it. So are the French. The British might have [...]





GOP Legislator Tweets

Categories

Select Category
Arizona Budget
Arizona Sunlight
AZ Conservative
Az House Republicans
AZ Senate Repulicans
Border Issues
Education
Energy
EspressoPundit
Gila Courier
Health Care
Heuisler
Ideas that Work
Intellectual Conservative Arizona
Papa Todd
Public Pensions
RedState
Saddlebrook
SeeingRedArizona
SonoranAlliance
States Rights
Tax Reform
TheChollaJumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party
Uncategorized



Archives

September 2011 (229)
August 2011 (386)
April 2011 (1)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (9)
January 2011 (14)


Blogroll

Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Senate Republicans
Arizona Sunlight
AZConservative
Bill Heuisler
Espresso Pundit
Gila Courier
Intellectual Conservate Arizona
Papa Todd
Red State
Saddlebrook Republican Club
Seeing Red AZ
Sonoran Alliance
The Arizona News & Telegraph
The Cholla Jumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party







Search for:




 Please feel free to contact us with your thoughts and ideas.

Get Connected
 Get Posts by RSS

Get Posts by Email
Your email: 

 By TwitterButtons.com

 Recent Posts

LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul
Morning Briefing for September 12, 2011
PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.
Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!
NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14


Recent Comments
Ryan Adams on Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential DebateAzAdmin on If Nixon Could Go To China, Conservatives Can Save The PlanetDesert Messenger on Quartzsite elects new mayor in recall — or maybe notDave Franicis-Brittanicus on Illegal Aliens Receive $4.2 Billion in Additional Child Tax Creditskate on Speaker Boehner Responds To Obama










Elements of SEO is Powered by WordPress | Accessible Website Development - Alibi Productions
Copyright © 2011 by Morning in Arizona







