Cops: Teen arsonists sought over Texas wildfire – msnbc.com | All2u | Page 44406917



All2u





 



9/11 Memorial: Obama VS Bush: Two Visions of the War on Terror? – International Business TimesAndy Whitfield dead: Spartacus star loses his battle with cancer at age 39 – Daily MailBisphosphonate Osteoporosis Drugs: FDA Questions Long-term Effects – International Business TimesCDC enters probe of listeria outbreak in Nebraska, Colorado – The State Column10 years after 9/11, a real home to honor victims – The Associated PressNASA Releases Raw Footage of 9/11 Attacks from Space [VIDEO] – International Business TimesWeight loss could lead to $15 billion savings in Medicare – The State ColumnMore ground turkey is recalled over salmonella – Los Angeles TimesAndy Whitfield, Star of TV’s Spartacus, Dies of Cancer at 39 – People Magazine‘Spartacus’ Star Andy Whitfield Dead at 39 – TMZ.com 



 
 
 

Cops: Teen arsonists sought over Texas wildfire – msnbc.com



 






Police in Texas were hunting three teenagers after a wildfire caused $  1.4 million in damage in an Austin suburb, officials said.


More from TODAY.com 


Does this controversial fashion spread glamorize domestic abuse?
A recent photo featured “Glee” star Heather Morris posing with a black eye, a bizarre styling the photographer described as a roughed up Barbie doll.

10 years later, TV still struggles to capture 9/11
Coma mom defies the odds
Deep-fried bubblegum busts competition at Texas State Fair
5 tips to save money through couponing



The blaze destroyed nearly a dozen homes and caused the evacuations of 500 people in Leander, according to residents and media reports. Investigators were treating the wildfire as arson.
Dawn Camp, 33, a fire evacuee from Leander near the Austin city limits, hadn’t heard the phone ring and didn’t know it was time to flee her home until she smelled smoke and walked out the front door to see her neighbor’s home burning.
“Fire was raining down on my yard,” she said.
 Story: Rising death toll in Texas wildfires
She grabbed her children, put them in the car, and started down the road. A block later, she jumped out and gave the keys to her 18-year-old daughter, who spirited her younger siblings, ages 8 and 10, to their great-grandmother’s house.
Camp then walked home to coax her cats, Bugbite and Moonshine, out of the house. But police were in her yard.
“They wouldn’t let me back in,” she said, standing outside a shelter at Rouse High School in Leander. Walking along a main street through the quiet subdivision, Camp said the smoke was so thick she couldn’t see or breathe.
 Slideshow: Wildfires scorch Texas (on this page)
A passerby picked her up, and she rejoined her family. Later, a relieved Camp reported that she was able to see her house — and both the home and the cats were fine.
“I saw some houses that were burned, but our little half of the street was fine,” Camp said. The cats “were thirsty, but they were wonderful.”
The wildfire in Leander had been extinguished by Tuesday afternoon.
There were also signs that one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history in the area of Bastrop, near Austin, was slowing thanks in part to calming winds.
But stretched-thin firefighting crews were still trying to get a handle on the blaze that has destroyed more than 600 homes, killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin.
Raging with zero containment for days, crews finally got a reprieve from strong winds Tuesday. Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said increased overnight humidity should help firefighters report some containment Wednesday.
The Bastrop blaze is the most severe of the more than 180 wildfires reported in the past week across drought-stricken Texas.
“It is certainly a remarkable fire in terms of evacuations and the number of homes that have burned,” Ken Frederick, spokesman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho, told Reuters.
The fires have destroyed a total of more than 1,000 homes and caused four deaths, including the two at Bastrop, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history.
Governor Rick Perry said Tuesday that a 100-member search team would begin to comb the area around Bastrop for more possible victims Wednesday morning.
 Video: Gov. Rick Perry: Wildfires have been ‘devastating’ (on this page)
He deployed Texas Task Force 1, the state’s elite search team, to help local authorities. The team includes a dozen search dogs.
Texas Task Force 1 was also sent to New York following the Sept. 11 attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.





Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin.


Only on msnbc.com 


Muslim travelers still saddled with 9/11 baggage

GOP debate is when great expectations meet reality

The face of a city: NYC taxi drivers recall 9/11
Obama jobs plan may not be enough
Future of Technology: Making computers disappear
Obama hits all-time low, NBC News/WSJ poll finds
Miscarriage risk doubles with use of NSAIDs



“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,” he said after the tour. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.”
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening’s Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was “substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of.”
But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there.
 Story: For GOP, debate is where expectations meet reality
Perry, a favorite of the Tea Party movement who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires. He also complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being put to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and “we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires.”


About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from out of state, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.
Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.
“We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,” said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas’ yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.
 Interactive: Texas drought (on this page)
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.
The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report.


Top Stories – Google News


 









				© 2011 
					All2u				


Privacy Policy



Powered by Howtoknow.us