lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2011 » May






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Tuesday, May 31, 2011
Gabriel Metsu

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:29 pm 
 


Just as the attribution of individual artworks changes over time, raising or lowering the fortunes of collectors and museums in the process, the perceived importance of particular artists, and their place in art history, changes as well — depending on who is writing history at the time.
Gabriel Metsu was one of the most important and well respected painters of the 17th Century, and remained the star of the Golden Age of Dutch painting well into the 19th. It wasn’t until the early 20th Century that Johannes Vermeer, largely ignored over that time and now held in such high esteem as to approach reverence among some (yours truly included), began to eclipse his contemporary. 
Critics in those centuries praised Metsu and wrote of Vermeer as one of his imitators; collectors turned down Vermeers in favor of Metsus, or bought them because they were sold as Metsus.
How history has changed.
Like Vermeer and another contemporary, Pieter de Hooch, Metsu painted scenes of domestic life, often illuminated by light spilling into the room from a window at the very edge of the composition; light that is given a character of its own and a stage of objects and a wall in the room on which to perform.
The other characters, the people in the scenes, also had their parts as actors. Where Vermeer’s luxuriously clad young men an women live in an enigmatic suspension of time, their thoughts and purpose only vaguely hinted at, Metsu was more of an overt storyteller, with clearer emotional suggestions, though his stories were also left largely to the imagination of the viewer.
Man Writing a Letter (above, top) and Woman Reading a Letter (second down) were meant as companion pieces, each suggesting part of the same story. Metsu’s genre scenes spoke to the character of his times, and found wide acceptance among collectors. Vermeer, though a product of his times, was perhaps not indicative of them, and has risen to a higher status in the last 100 years than he found in his own age.
Metsu is receiving renewed attention, however, in part due to an exhibition of 35 of his most highly regarded works organized by the National Gallery of Ireland, Dublin, in cooperation with the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam and the National Gallery of Art, Washington.
Having been on view in the other two venues, the show is now at the National Gallery in Washington until  July 24, 2011. There is a  catalog, Gabriel Metsu, Rediscovered Master of the Dutch Golden Age (more here), accompanying the exhibition, and I’ve gathered some reviews and resources below.
Far from being disadvantageous, it may be that comparisons to Vermeer’s work, particularly in paintings like the two at top and Woman with a Sick Child (third down)  spark interest among 21st Century art lovers, bringing Metsu back into the light and place in history that he deserves.
[Suggestion courtesy of Eric Lee Smith]


Link: Gabriel Metsu, 1629-1667, National Gallery of Art, Washington, to 7/24/11
Illustrated brochure of exhibition (PDF)
Gabriel Metsu, Rediscovered Master of the Dutch Golden Age, Amazon
Mini-site for exhibit from National Gallery of Ireland
Review on NPR
Newsweek
NYT
Washington Post
Rijksmuseum (high-res zoomable)
Memory of the Netherlands (hi-res zoomable)
National Gallery, London (high-res zoomable)
The Sick Child, Google Art Project (high res)
Web Gallery of Art
Wikimedia Commons
Ciudad de la pintura
ARC
ArtMight
Gabriel Metsu, Complete Works
Bio on Essential Vermeer
Wikipedia
ArtCyclopedia (museum links and more image resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Friday, May 27, 2011
Judsons Plein Air Journal

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:11 pm 
 


Judsons Art Outfitters is a company that manufactures and sells plein air painting supplies, including a popular line of pochade boxes (see my 2008 post on pochade boxes).
Since 2008, they have been maintaining a blog on plein air artists both contemporary and historic, plein air techniques, plein air competitions and other events of interest to plein air painters, and of course, materials.
The blog, titled Judsons Plein Air Journal, inclides short profiles of the featured artists, along with sample images and links to their websites. 
In 2010 they moved the blog from its original home on Blogger and integrated it into their main product website. The archives are now on the new site as well, though you may find them easier to browse using the right hand menu bar on the old blog.


Link: www.judsonsart.com/blog
Archives on Blogger
Judsons Art Outfitters
My 2008 post on Pochade Boxes

Posted in:  Painting,Tools and Techniques   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, May 26, 2011
Carter Goodrich

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:48 pm 
 


Illustrator, author and character designer Carter Goodrich has a drawing a rendering style that is so springy, energetic and full of lively linework and color, that it’s just a complete joy to look through his portfolio.
Even though his website has fairly extensive galleries of his book illustrations, New Yorker covers, editorial illustrations and character design for films like Despicable Me, Ratatouille, Shreck and Finding Nemo, I came away wanting more.
Goodrich’s film work has garnered him multiple AISFA Annie award nominations, and the award itself for his designs for Ratatouille.
His books as author and illustrator include A Creature was Stirring, The Hermit Crab and Say Hello to Zorro.
[Suggestion courtesy of Chris Sheban (see my post on Chris Sheban)]


Link: http://cartergoodrich.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   7 Comments »


Tuesday, May 24, 2011
Golden: Dutch and Flemish Masterworks from the Van Otterloo Collection

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:06 am 
 


Extraordinary examples of works form the golden era of Dutch and Flemish painting, drawn from what is one of the finest collections still in private hands, are on display at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Massachusetts until June 19, 2011.
Golden: Dutch and Flemish Masterworks from the Rose-Marie and Eijk van Otterloo Collection showcases almost 70 works from the collection, the owners of which have been called “the most important collectors you’ve never heard of” by arts writer Judith Dobrzynski.
The section for the exhibit on the museum’s website shows 12 of the paintings. In addition there are two interactive features, accessed from links in the right-hand column, highlighting Jan van der Heyden’s View of the WesterKerk, Amsterdam (image above, second down), and Isaack Kodijck’s Barber-Surgeon Tending a Peasant’s Foot (above, third down).
Contemporary painter Jeffrey Hayes, who I’ve written about previously, was kind enough to let me know about the exhibit. He has an enthusiastic review of it on his site in which he remarks in particular about the two works in the show by Gerritt Dou (image above, top).
The collectors promise that their remarkable collection is destined to be made public at some point, but have not made any announcements about a specific museum that might wind up as home to the works.
(Images above; Gerritt Dou, Jan van der Heyden, Isaack Kodijck, Rembrandt van Rijn, Willem Claesz)


Link: Golden: Dutch and Flemish Masterworks from the van Otterloo Collection, PEM to 6/19/11
Review by Jeffrey Hayes

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Friday, May 20, 2011
Jeffrey Catherine Jones, 1944-2011

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:10 pm 
 


I was sorry to hear that Jeffrey Catherine Jones died yesterday at the age of 67. 
Jones, As I reported in my brief 2006 post, was an influential fantasy artist and illustrator who also did comics and gallery art. 
Part of The Studio, a renowned group of illustrators and comics artists in the 1970′s that included Barry Windsor-Smith, Berni Wrightson and Michael William Kaluta, Jones had been called “the greatest living painter” by Frank Frazetta.
Jones helped introduce classical art themes into comics, but was primarily known for her atmospheric, painterly and wonderfully textural paintings for fantasy book covers.
There are a couple of collections of Jones’ work that appear to be out of print, but can be found used: The Art of Jeffrey Jones, Jeffrey Jones: A Life in Art and Age of Innocence: The Romantic Art of Jeffrey Jones. There is also a Jeffrey Jones Sketchbook, which is more readily available.
Maria Cabardo has been working on a film about Jones’ life and art titled Better Things: The Life and Choices of Jeffrey Catherine Jones. Her studio, MaCab films, initiated a Kickstarter project to fund the film but it fell short. I believe they are still soliciting donations directly, though I don’t know the current status of the project. There is another clip here.
There is a nice tribute to Jones on the Muddy Colors blog.


Link: www.jeffreyjones-art.com
Old site on Internet Archive
Better Things: The Life and Choices of Jeffrey Catherine Jones
Muddy Colors
Comics Beat
Interview on Sequential Tart
Bio on BPIB
Bio on Wikipedia
My previous post on Jeff Jones

Posted in:  Comics,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   9 Comments »


Wednesday, May 18, 2011
MagazineArt.org

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


MagazineArt.org is a trove of magazine covers and advertising illustration from the decades around the turn of the 20th Century.
Though a number of names of illustrators from that era have become familiar, many many more are still obscure, rarely featured or highlighted. The illustrations in the MagazineArt.org archives are heavy on the latter, light on the former.
If you dig,  you can find some gems by artists like Maxfield Parrish (above, second down) Coles Phillips (4th down) and others. 
The real draw here, though, is the unknown artists, both good and wonderfully cheesy. There is a search feature, but discoveries are best made by browsing. 
You can start off in galleries sorted by topic (note the numbered links at bottom to subsequent pages) and drill down into individual titles. 
Don’t be hasty to pass up categories that might not be of interest to you as a reader. Some of the best illustrations are in women’s magazines and weekly titles like Collier’s; some of the most fun are in the science magazines and pulps. 


Link: www.magazineart.org
galleries sorted by topic
Related posts:
Maxfield Parrish
Coles Phillips

Posted in:  Illustration   |   7 Comments »


Tuesday, May 17, 2011
Ruo Li

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:07 am 
 


Seascapes are rarely subjects that capture my attention. The seascapes of Ruo Li, however, are striking exceptions. 
Sweeping carpets of foam vibrate over rough edged rocks, throwing up volumetric plumes of spray; or quietly seep through crevices and channels on their way back to join the greater sea. Flat planes of water lay against the sand, carrying reflections of the sky in their glistening surface.
His depiction of foam and spray, as well as other white subjects like snow or the white decks of boats, are handled with masterful aplomb.
Li’s rich, painterly approach revels in the textures of his subjects, whether seascapes, landscapes or still life. He often works with a very controlled palette, though he will employ brighter busts of color in his landscapes. 
Li was born in Hunan, China and received his BA degree from the Fine Art Department of Guangzhou Academy. He went on to teach in the Fine Art Department of Henan University. He emigrated to the U.S. in 1989 and is currently based in California.
Unfortunately, the galleries on his website are slightly awkward. You can choose easily enough from subject categories along the bottom for Seascapes, Watercolor (image above, bottom), Sketches, Landscape and Floral, as well as “Other” which includes more conceptual pieces, usually involving animal themes. 
Once in a particular gallery, however, you have to click on a thumbnail before any images from that gallery appear, and need to take note of the small indicator under the thumbnails of how many pages of thumbnails are in the gallery (the Seascape gallery has 17), and use the small symbols to navigate to the next batch.
There is a mention of his work on the PaintAmerica site, where he won top honors in the 2009 competition. The image there is linked to a larger version than the images on his site, allowing for a better sense of his brushwork and use of texture.
In addition, there is a book of Ruo Li’s Art available on Blurb.
[Suggestion courtesy of James Gurney]


Link: www.ruoli.net

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   8 Comments »


Monday, May 16, 2011
Mattias Adolfsson (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:17 am 
 


Since I wrote about Mattias Adolfsson back in 2009, he has continued to fill his blog, Mattias Inks, with his marvelously whimsical illustrations, sketches, drawings and watercolors. 
They range from finished illustrations, a number of which are for Wired, through complex Moleskein drawings to simple but charming doodles. 
He has recently collected a variety of them into a book titled The first in line. 
He has stuffed a lot of drawings and illustrations into the 160-page book, judging from the video flip-through on his site, which gives a good idea of the range and scope of the contents. There is also a picture of the cover here, and more info here.
If you order before June 1, Adolfsson will sign your copy and include a small doodle.


Link: http://mattiasa.blogspot.com
The first in line (book)
www.mattiasadolfsson.se (website)
My previous post about Mattias Adolfsson

Posted in:  Illustration,Pen & Ink   |   1 Comment »


Saturday, May 14, 2011
Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:11 pm 
 


As blockbuster exhibitions have become more prohibitively expensive to mount, museums have had to work to fill their exhibition schedules with more modest shows, usually based on a fairly specific theme.
Far from being disappointing, I’ve found this trend to be filled with unexpected delights and often enlightening twists on how the works and artists are viewed.
A case in point is Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century, on view at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York until July 4, 2011.
The theme here is a simple one, compositions in which the artist has used an open window as a major component, if not the overt focus of the work. This was a common theme in the 19th Century, and the exhibition is even more specific, focusing on the early two decades of the century and works by German, Danish, French, Italian and Russian artists, several of them artists’ studio interiors.
The museum’s feature on the exhibition includes a gallery of selected works, each linked to a slightly larger image. Presumably, you can look up the image and artist on the web site of the institution from which the original is on loan if you are interested in pursuing the works further.
I happen to particularly enjoy this subject, and would love to see an exhibition in which it was expanded across eras and genres to include works like Young Woman Drawing by Marie-Denise Villers, the open windows of Pieter de Hooch and the enigmatic window/canvas paintings of Rene Magritte; but that’s a thought for the future.
For the moment, the Met has opened a window on a specific, fascinating aspect of the early 19th Century.
(Images above: Martin Drolling [att.], Jacob Alt, Martinus Rorbye, Giovanni Battista de Gubernatis, Leon Cogniet, Georg Friedrich Kersting)  


Link: Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century, Met, to 7/4/11
Images from the exhibition

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Wednesday, May 11, 2011
M.C. Escher: Impossible Realities

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:41 am 
 


One of the things that visual art does at its best is allow us to see the world through fresh eyes, reframing the ordinary as extraordinary.
Sometimes, however, the artworks become so iconic and familiar as to need reframing themselves in order to be seen freshly.
M.C. Escher, despite being treated for years by art critics as a piece of gum on their mental shoe, something nasty and annoying that won’t go away, has found his way into the general consciousness and popular culture as a prime example of the unfamiliar made familiar.
Escher was an extraordinary printmaker who slipped between the worlds of art, mathematics and psychology like a psychic eel, finding the distinctions others see as barriers easily porous. He brought back from his introspective journeys evidence of impossible worlds, postcards from inner space; not the fevered dream state imaginings of the Surrealists, but hard edged artifacts of geometric purity. 
Through some Klein bottle-like twist of inter-dimensional sleight-of-hand, Escher connected the tenuous vapor of imagination to the rigid solidity of mathematical certainty; in the process giving each a wrenching turn that reveals their hidden sides.
Escher’s reorganizations of space and planes, his defiance of gravity and time and his insistence on showing us the impossible not only as possible but as in-your-face obvious as a brick in your hand, has become the stuff of T-shirts, mugs and desktop wallpapers.
The challenge, as I pointed out in my previous post on M.C. Escher, is to see his artwork as artwork, free from cultural baggage. I think the most promising path for this lies in his less familiar work, delving into the pieces not often reproduced, particularly his early work, and viewing it side by side with his more iconic pieces. 
M.C. Escher: Impossible Realities is an exhibition currently at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio that promises to do just that, featuring 130 works, drawn largely from the extensive Escher collection of the Herakleidon Museum in Athens, Greece.
I don’t know if the images above are in the Akron show or not, I just picked a few of my favorites, some iconic, some less so. M.C. Escher: Impossible Realities is on view  at the Akron Art Museum until June 5, 2011. The museum’s Facebook page has some photographs of the installation.
For those, like myself, who can’t easily get to Akron, there are numerous books on Escher. One I recommend in particular is The Magic Mirror of M.C. Escher by Bruno Ernst, which not only features some of his early and lesser-known works, but delves into his influences, process and working methods.
I’ve also attempted to collect some web resources below. There is an official M.C. Escher site, maintained by a foundation that Escher himself started. They seem to have submitted to the kind of web image paranoia that makes them reluctant to post images large enough to be really useful in many cases, but their selection may be the most complete. 
There is now an Escher Museum in the Hague, called Escher in het Paleis (Escher in the Palace), though their site doesn’t seem to have a gallery of images.
World of Escher, despite its commercial bent, has some larger images. Note that there are more in the drop-down list than are displayed as thumbnails. Art Renewal has good images, if a limited selection. Cuidad de la pintura has a nice selection (note second page).
The National Gallery in Washington has a good selection, as well as a page on his life and work.
The M.C. Escher bio on Wikipedia has a fairly extensive list of linked images, most of which are linked in turn to larger versions.
If you spend some time with Escher, looking at both the familiar and lesser-known works, you may discover that he has more ways than you realized to show you the ordinary as extraordinary.


Link: M.C. Escher: Impossible Realities, Akron Art Museum to 6/5/11
Official M.C. Escher site
Escher in het Paleis (Escher Museum , the Hague)
M.C. Escher bio on Wikipedia
World of Escher
Art Renewal
Christie's Sold Lot Archive
Cuidad de la pintura
National Gallery
Math and the Art of M.C. Escher
Mathematical Art of M.C. Escher
Artful Mathematics: The Heritage of M.C. Escher (PDF)
CGFA
El Poder de la Palabra
UMICH
Oldest Escher Collection on the Web
Neal's Escher Page
Escher for Real
ArtCyclopedia (additional links and resources)
My previous post on M.C. Escher

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Prints and Printmaking   |   6 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






