Active Insite | The active lifestyle blog!



Active Insite





 



REX RYAN: Don’t Wear Your Cowboys Gear To MetLife StadiumReady to breakout: Players poised for a big season in 2011The Journal Gazette, 600 W. Main St., Fort Wayne INKanrocksas features Muse, Texas-based artist The Black AngelsThe 15 Most Unforgettable Songs By Fueled By Ramen ArtistsNadal, Murray book semis spot at US OpenCard Game Review: Monster Mash UpBOT’s Chatumongol supports wealth fundActress and Model Brooklyn Decker Visits the ‘Just Jared Studio Presented by… — NEW YORK, Aug. 31, 2011 /PRNewswire/ –Injured Veterans to Cycle 540 Miles on the Ride 2 Recovery 9.11 Challenge in Remembrance of Victims of 9.11 



 
 

REX RYAN: Don’t Wear Your Cowboys Gear To MetLife Stadium



 
On Sunday night, the New York Jets will open their season at home against the Dallas Cowboys. And Jets coach Rex Ryan made some comments that appeared to be an attempt to strike fear, not in the Cowboys, but in the Cowboys' fanbase.Ryan, known for making outlandish statements, was asked about Cowboys fans making their presence known at MetLife Stadium on Sunday...“It’s probably not recommended that you wear Cowboys stuff, I would think...I don’t know why they’d be here. They’re coming into our stadium.”Did Ryan just threaten the Cowboys fans?In the wake of recent headlines of fan violence, these comments are, at best, in poor taste. And at worst, Ryan is probably facing a tongue-lashing from Emperor Roger Goodell. Ryan may have even set the Jets organization up for heavy lawsuits if any Cowboys fans are assaulted this weekend as Ryan's comments could be interpreted as permission for Jets fans to take matters into their own hands.Ryan did try to backtrack from his comments, saying "it wasn't [his] intention" to threaten Cowboys fans. But he went on to reiterate that he does not want to see any Cowboys gear in the his team's stadium. "I don't think our stadium needs to have visiting color jerseys," said Ryan.Ryan added that fan safety is important to him and the organization.But for a guy that is often accused of not thinking before speaking, these recent comments would seem to qualify.
    

 

Do you have any comments or concerns? Contact us!Be sure to read our DMCA Policy




Ready to breakout: Players poised for a big season in 2011

Paul Connors / Associated Press Chargers RB Ryan Mathews could be in for a big season if he can stay on the field. The NFL is like the music industry, in that a few gifted artists emerge out of nowhere each year. There are always rookies who make their respective teams' general managers look brilliant … Continue reading





The Journal Gazette, 600 W. Main St., Fort Wayne IN

And now you’re thinking this, as the baseball rockets off the kid’s bat: Here’s where the stitching comes loose. It’s the top of the fourth Thursday night, one man on, one man in, the TinCaps’ lead over Bowling Green down to a nervous run here on a damp, somber evening more suited to chasing hounds … Continue reading





Kanrocksas features Muse, Texas-based artist The Black Angels

By Joshua MaddenA&E EditorAlthough the glory days of Woodstock are long gone, big music festivals are not merely an element of the 1960s. As evidenced by the popularity of more modern festivals like Lolapalooza and Coachella, music in America is alive and kicking. Another soon-to-be giant, The Kanrocksas Music Festival, roared through the Kansas Speedway … Continue reading





The 15 Most Unforgettable Songs By Fueled By Ramen Artists

Fueled By Ramen‘s 15 year anniversary celebration kicked off this week with thousands of fans and dozens of bands there to ring it in with them. FBR has continually introduced timeless and chart topping artists over a span of nearly two decades.On September 7, FBR celebrated with night one of their anniversary concert with headlining … Continue reading





Nadal, Murray book semis spot at US Open

AHN Sports StaffNew York, NY, United States (AHN Sports) - Rafael Nadal unleashed sharp serves and a full of repertoire of shots to demolish Andy Roddick 6-2, 6-1, 6-3 and advance to the semifinal round of the 2011 US Open Championship Friday at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Nadal moved a step … Continue reading





Card Game Review: Monster Mash Up

Monster Mash Up from Fundex is a solid children’s game. The online description quickly excited my inner six-year-old, conjuring images of mystical creatures that have fascinated me since well before I can remember. “Create your own monster!” is a great theme for imaginative kids; when young I drew many beasts and still do to this … Continue reading





BOT’s Chatumongol supports wealth fund

The government should set aside 10 per cent of the country’s international reserves for the establishment of a sovereign wealth fund but investors should not have close connection with politicians, Bank of Thailand board chairman Chatumongol Sonakul said on Monday.MR Chatumongol Sonakul said Thailand has international reserves of more than US$200 billion, most of it  in … Continue reading





Actress and Model Brooklyn Decker Visits the ‘Just Jared Studio Presented by… — NEW YORK, Aug. 31, 2011 /PRNewswire/ –

WHO: Sports Illustrated Swimsuit model turned actress Brooklyn Decker dropped by the "Just Jared Studio Presented by LACOSTE" to chat about her first big break, Just Go with It.  She was all smiles talking about tennis pro hubby Andy Roddick and even showed off her best runway walk and booty dance!  (Photo:  photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20110831/CL60621)WHAT:LACOSTE, known worldwide … Continue reading





Injured Veterans to Cycle 540 Miles on the Ride 2 Recovery 9.11 Challenge in Remembrance of Victims of 9.11

NEW YORK, Sep 09, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) ----Ride 2 Recovery raises funds to support rehabilitation programs for the nation's veterans --Public encouraged to gather along the daily routes to support riders More than 350 injured veterans and their supporters will set off on Sunday, Sept. 11, on the Ride 2 Recovery 9.11 Challenge sponsored by … Continue reading






Older posts >>







				© 2011 
					Active Insite				

















