2011  January | Morning in Arizona




Home
About



Morning in Arizona
Arizona: Open for Business





Is It Time to Sever the Federal-State Medicaid Relationship?
 Obamacare has trapped States into unsustainable spending. The federal government’s low-ball provider reimbursements are causing hospitals to cost-shift shortfalls to private insurance. The federal government attacks private insurance for raising premiums to cover the government caused cost-shift. Physicians are not only dropping Medicaid and Medicare patients due to low reimbursements, Obamacare has caused an artificial shortage of physicians. Health care rationing is now in place.




Serious Budget Measures for Serious Budget Times
Week after week the Letters to the Editors page and the local TV news are filled with writers and talking heads demanding the local LD Representatives to spend more on the issue of the day, K-12 Education, AHCCCS, Roadside Rest Stops, Parks, Higher Education, KinderCare Education, Solar Tax Credits, More Highways, Better Highways, New School [...]


Russell Pearce Comments on Partisan Attacks
The tragedy in Tucson January 8 shook Arizonans to the core, and those of us in public service here were doubly shaken, because one of the shooting victims was a friend and colleague, and it happened at an informal public gathering, something all of us have hosted at one time or another. My first thoughts [...]


Utah Public Pensions
For anyone who missed the WSJ Op-Ed of Wednesday, January 19, 2011, “The Utah Pension Model,” here’s a re-cap of an idea Arizona might try. Utah Senator Dan Liljenquist learned a lesson when the stock market tanked in 2008 and Utah’s state pension fund lost 22% of its assets. Suddenly in 2009, Utah faced a [...]


Kavanagh Files Bill Targeting Automatic Citizenship
Republican Representative John Kavanagh filed a proposal Thursday challenging the law that gives automatic citizenship to children of illegal aliens. He’d like to bring the dispute to the courts in an effort to reduce the costs associated with granting automatic citizenship. What do you think?


Another Voucher Program Shows Great Results
“High school graduation rates increased for both Milwaukee Public Schools students and low-income city children using vouchers to attend private schools in 2008-’09, but voucher students are still more likely to graduate than their public school peers, according to data released Monday, January 24, 2011. The latest findings add a seventh year of data – [...]


ADC Inmates Working For Arizona
Attention all County, City and Town officials and residents in Arizona: There are 40,000 inmates in the Arizona Dept of Corrections. 6,000 are available for inmate work programs. Only 1,500 are now engaged in these program, so 4,500 are available for work around the state. If every level of government in the state is using this [...]


Arizona Illustrated–Antenori & Melvin Video
 


Atomic Energy Can Make Arizona a Very Rich State
Any practical plan for our future must include alternate energy sources and any alternate energy plan must include atomic energy.  In truth, Arizona can be a very rich and prosperous state with plentiful and affordable electricity through atomic power, and we can also have plentiful and affordable water through desalination. Giving us an additional advantage [...]


You Picked a Fine Time to Lead Us, Barack
Check out this YouTube video, You Picked a Fine Time to Leave us, Barack! We love it!


keep looking »



GOP Legislator Tweets

Categories

Select Category
Arizona Budget
Arizona Sunlight
AZ Conservative
Az House Republicans
AZ Senate Repulicans
Border Issues
Education
Energy
EspressoPundit
Gila Courier
Health Care
Heuisler
Ideas that Work
Intellectual Conservative Arizona
Papa Todd
Public Pensions
RedState
Saddlebrook
SeeingRedArizona
SonoranAlliance
States Rights
Tax Reform
TheChollaJumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party
Uncategorized



Archives

September 2011 (229)
August 2011 (386)
April 2011 (1)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (9)
January 2011 (14)


Blogroll

Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Senate Republicans
Arizona Sunlight
AZConservative
Bill Heuisler
Espresso Pundit
Gila Courier
Intellectual Conservate Arizona
Papa Todd
Red State
Saddlebrook Republican Club
Seeing Red AZ
Sonoran Alliance
The Arizona News & Telegraph
The Cholla Jumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party







Search for:




 Please feel free to contact us with your thoughts and ideas.

Get Connected
 Get Posts by RSS

Get Posts by Email
Your email: 

 By TwitterButtons.com

 Recent Posts

LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul
Morning Briefing for September 12, 2011
PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.
Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!
NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14


Recent Comments
Ryan Adams on Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential DebateAzAdmin on If Nixon Could Go To China, Conservatives Can Save The PlanetDesert Messenger on Quartzsite elects new mayor in recall — or maybe notDave Franicis-Brittanicus on Illegal Aliens Receive $4.2 Billion in Additional Child Tax Creditskate on Speaker Boehner Responds To Obama










Elements of SEO is Powered by WordPress | Accessible Website Development - Alibi Productions
Copyright © 2011 by Morning in Arizona







