Free Legal Resources for Victims of Texas Wildfires #txfire #centraltxfire « TRLA Times



TRLA Times






« New Month Brings New Laws to Texas



Free Legal Resources for Victims of Texas Wildfires #txfire #centraltxfire

LAST UPDATED: SEPTEMBER 10, 2011 11:30 AM

There are numerous organizations offering free legal resources to help victims of the Texas wildfires with the legal issues they face in the aftermath of this disaster. Below is a list of resources we hope you find helpful:
Texas RioGrande Legal Aid Disaster Assistance Hotline: 1-866-757-1570
For help with legal issues related to the disaster such as insurance claims, price gouging, landlord-tenant disputes, replacing important legal documents, or obtaining disaster-related public benefits.  Hotline is staffed Monday through Friday. When lines are busy, callers will be able to leave their information and a TRLA staff member will return their call within 24 hours.
Texas RioGrande Legal Aid Austin Evening Legal Clinic
Mondays–Martin Jr. High (1601 Haskell St.)
Wednesdays–Webb Middle School (601 East St. Johns)
Clinics are held from 6pm to 7pm every Monday and Wednesday that Austin ISD has classes. All attendees who sign in by 7pm will be able to speak to someone regarding their legal issues that evening.
**TRLA hosts these clinics year-round for all legal issues. Wildfire evacuees in the Austin area are invited to attend.**

State Bar of Texas Disaster Assistance Hotline: 1-800-504-7030
Austin Bar Association Legal Clinics
Ascension Catholic Church (802 Pine Street)
Bastrop Christian Outreach (1096 Hwy 71 W.)
Celebration Christian Church 107 Longhorn St, Bastrop, TX
First Assembly of God 609 Pecan St, Bastrop, TX
Premerica Baptist Church 308 Paul C Bell, Bastrop, TX
Sears Hometown Store 735 Old Austin Hwy., Ste. B, Bastrop, TX
From 9am to 9pm, September 7th through September 9th
From 9am to 5pm on September 10th at Bastrop City Hall, Rundell Business Park, and Sears Hometown Store

To serve as a pro bono attorney for these clinics, contact David Courreges (512-615-2787) or Amy Welborn (512-825-3390)
Texas Law Help: Disaster Relief
Texas Law Help provides free online legal resources
Texas Health and Human Services Commission Benefits Replacement
1602 Hill Street, Bastrop (Bastrop High School — near the old football field)
To help families eligible for replacement benefits for SNAP food stamp assistance
HHSC also has staff in four shelters to help evacuees: First Baptist Church of Smithville, 300 Hudgins St., Smithville Indoor Recreation Center, 106 Gazley St., Grace Lutheran Church of Smithville, 308 Byrne St., Bastrop Intermediate School, 509 Old Austin Hwy
State Bar of Texas Legal Clinic –  Smithville
210 Main Street
10am to 6pm, September 9th
FEMA Disaster Assistance
As of September 10, residents and business owners who sustained losses in Bastrop County can begin applying for assistance by registering online at http://www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. For information on the types of aid available, click here.
DPS ID/Driver Licenses Replacement
DPS will operate a mobile driver license office on September 10 at the Bastrop Convention Center until 5pm.
Emergency Hotel Voucher Program
Up to $250,000 from the Texas Disaster Relief Fund will be distributed through Combined Community Action Inc. to provide seven-day emergency hotel vouchers for individuals and families whose homes have been destroyed in the Bastrop County fire. Combined Community Action will also administer flexible assistance cards using up to $350,000 from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs to cover essential expenses for these individuals and families. Volunteers from Combined Community Action will be at each Bastrop County shelter beginning at 10 a.m. on Saturday to take applications for hotel vouchers from those who are currently living in the shelters.
**We’re trying to keep this list as up-t0-date as possible. If you need to correct information or would like to provide information on additional resources, please add it to the comments below.**
Share this:
Explore posts in the same categories: Announcements, Austin, TRLA Offices


						This entry was posted on September 7, 2011 at 9:59 am and is filed under Announcements, Austin, TRLA Offices. You can subscribe via RSS 2.0 feed to this post's comments. 
																		
						                            You can comment below, or link to this permanent URL  from your own site. 
						
												
					




Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (Not published)



Name



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 






Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: Sapphire by Michael Martine. 	

















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			









