Texas Wildfires Animal Rescue Resources & Updates | pawsitivelytexas.com


















Home
About
Adopt A Pet
Resources

Help for Pet Owners
No Kill Texas Resources

No Kill: What It Is And Is Not


Pet Food Assistance
Texas Animal Shelters
Pet Transport Directory
Texas Rescue Groups: Purebred Dogs
Heart Stories
Lost a Pet 
Service & Therapy Pets


Submit a Story
Links
Woof!


















9 /
							6 /
11


Alva 
 



Categories Animal Rescue
 16 comments 



Texas Wildfires Animal Rescue Resources & Updates




An Austin Pets Alive volunteer works through the night helping to evacuate the Bastrop Co Animal Shelter pets to safety in Austin. Photo by Ryan Clinton
September 6, 2011
I started covering the Texas Wildfires Sunday evening and the amazing volunteer teams that rose up to help working through the night to assure the Bastrop County Animal Shelter pets were moved to safety. I published many resources to the the Pawsitively Texas Facebook newsfeed in real time throughout Sunday evening and all day Monday, but this information needs to be catalogued in one place for easy reference so everyone knows how and where to help – and where the rescued animals have gone. Here is a list, please let me know of any resources that need to be added! I will continue to update as needed. Please share with others to help organize this important information, helping the paws and the people and organizations helping them!
If you can help, please do! We also appreciate your prayers very much! Please share this post to help get the word out. Heartfelt thanks!
Bastrop Fire Photo posted by Bastrop County Office of Emergency Management
EVACUEES
Evacuees can register on the Red Cross Safe and Well website.
 
SHELTERS & RESCUES – Find pets separated from families and adopt:
Austin Pets Alive! took in pets from the Bastrop animal shelter
Austin Humane Society took in pets from the Bastrop animal shelter; if you are looking for a pet, you can email them here: info@austinhumanesociety.org
Montgomery County Animal Shelter – find pets here
Williamson County Regional Animal Shelter took in pets from Leander animal shelter
Bastrop Christian Outreach Center opened their doors to evacuees and their pets. (512) 332-8977
ABC 13 NEWS  report on Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties fires, evacuation, and resources
Montgomery County, the Red Cross is staffing the evacuation center set up at Magnolia High School at 14350 FM 1488.
The shelter in Grimes County is at the Grimes County Expo Center.
*** See ALSO the Tracking Emergency News section below as it has a lot of resources for pets and livestock!
 
TEXAS SHELTERS AND RESCUES EVACUATED
Bastrop County Animal Shelter
Leander Animal Control
Central Texas SPCA
Dakota Rescue – Magnolia, Texas 
 
TO VOLUNTEER:
Bastrop – go to the Convention Center; the Sheriff’s office is flooded with calls and ask that volunteers go directly to the convention center and not to call. The address is: 1408 Chestnut Street, Bastrop, Texas 78602. Some animals were left behind and volunteers are helping to save them. The shelter pets were evacuated and rescued by Austin Pets Alive and Austin Humane Society! The Bastrop Co Office of Emergency Management asks that before anyone brings donations for emergency personnel to call first: (512) 900-0800.
Austin Humane Society has a wish list of items needed.
Austin Pets Alive – help is needed from 7-9am and 8-10pm for walking dogs. They also can use help with kennel cleaning and donations of cleaning supplies. 2807 Manchaca Road, Austin 78704
 
TO FOSTER – these animal rescue groups are overwhelmed with the unexpected pets in their care due to the wildfires – if you’re in the area, please foster:
Foster with Austin Humane Society
Foster with Austin Pets Alive
Foster with Williamson County Regional Animal Shelter
 
TO DONATE – funds are needed to help vet and care for the animals rescued from the shelter:
Donate to Austin Humane Society
Donate to Austin Pets Alive
Donate to Williamson County Animal Shelter
Donate to Bastrop Christian Outreach Center
Donate to Capital Area Food Bank of Texas
 
TRACK EMERGENCY NEWS:
Bastrop County of Emergency Management
Montgomery County Emergency Communication District - sign up here to receive code red alerts
Montgomery County Wildfire Info – a Facebook page to track Montgomery County wildfire news
Texas Forest Service Fire Activity Map
Texas Forest Service - a Facebook page for updates
Track Texas Road Closures
Active Texas Fires Map
List of Active Fires
Texas Storm Chasers
Texas Drought Index
Texas Outdoor Burn Ban Map
Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) Police Scanners
Pawsitively Texas - the Facebook page used to crosspost many of the needs of all involved saving lives of Texas pets!
Bastrop LOST Pets
Bastrop FOUND Pets
Assistance Information for Animals Displaced by Wildfires – a Facebook page to track animals
Bastrop CO Fire Large Animal Info – a Facebook page to track Livestock and large animal evacuation needs
#livestocktxfire is a twitter feed for large animal rescues
Lost and Found Pets From Texas Wildfires – a Facebook page to track lost and found pets
Texas Wildfire Horses – a website for lost/found horses, but they also have posts for dogs and cats too
Lost Pets in Montgomery County Texas
Waller County Lost and Found Animals
Lost or Found Pets in Texas - a Facebook page to track lost and found pets
Tahitian Village Fire – a Facebook page tracking news and developments in this Bastrop Community hit hard by the wildfires.


BASTROP FIRE EVACUATION AND ANIMAL RESCUE PHOTOS:
Austin Humane Society Evacuation Photos
Austin Pets Alive Animal Rescue Fire Evacuation Photos
Dakota Rescue Evacuation Photos


 





Comments




 Tina Wood says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 11:54 pm 
Thank you for providing and updating this information!

Reply 





 sherry nassar says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 4:04 pm 
please send any info about lost/found/displaced animals in Waller Co. to Deborah Wrigley at Deborah.Wrigley@abc.com
or links or websites or resources
thank you!

Reply 







 missy McCulllough says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:15 pm 
GREAT info ! Thanks for making this available to all!

Reply 





 Toshiba 445cdt Battery says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 4:34 pm 
I couldn’t imagine what’s going on in Austin, TX happening during SxSW … Prayers & well wishes to the fire victims!

Reply 





 Jo Anne Rando-Moon says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 8:04 pm 
Thank you for all you are doing for the animals and their humans and keeping us updated.  I am reposting on my FB page hoping those close by can help out.  Praying for all of you and RAIN over the entire State of Texas.  Be safe.

Reply 





 Carri Crowe says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 8:27 pm 
Do you know where strays are now being taken if they are caught in the Bastrop area? Please post any information you have about where animals are being sent for intake and sheltering while so many shelters are not in service. Thank you!

Reply 





 Alva says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:05 pm 
Carri, there are several links above under Shelters & Rescues and also Track Emergency News – no one place.

Reply 







 Ashlee says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 2:14 am 
Where can donations of supplies be dropped off?

Reply 





 Alva says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 3:31 am 
Hi Ashlee, it’s best to check with Austin Pets Alive and/or Austin Humane Society (if for pets) and the other evacuation areas listed. I’ve seen several changes and requests for donations to go through various resource groups so they’re coordinated. The ones working ‘in the trenches’ know best where the current need is. Thanks!

Reply 







 Jessica says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 2:31 am 
My name is Jessica and I am a Registered Veterinary Technician. My friend and I are wanting to help with this disaster and are hoping that we can volunteer with the animal rescue from this wildfire. We are happy to offer our knowledge and skills to assist veterinarians with triage and emergency care of animals that are injured or found. Please let me know if there is anything that we can do. My email is jessicag507@hotmail.com. Thanks!

Reply 





 Alva says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 3:29 am 
Hi Jessica, that’s great! I know yesterday, Austin Pets Alive (APA) was aligning to help a Houston based disaster rescue group. The best option is to contact APA or the Austin Humane Society to see if they have any contact with triage teams. Thanks for your willingness to help – be safe!

Reply 







 Melodee says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 12:40 pm 
Great post! Very informative, keep up with the good work!

Reply 





 Julie says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 2:58 pm 
Missing sister and I would like to offer our services to search by horseback to anyone missing pets or livestock due to the wildfires in Montgomery County. Please contact me if you’d like our assistance. We can also post flyers and get the word out. 
jkpierce576@gmail.com
(832) 235-4041

Reply 





 Rosie Reichert says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 3:05 pm 
Thank you Jesus for ( APA)and all the volunteers & staff.we live in Texas and owners of two beautiful dogs one little bundle of 31/2 lbs chihuahua name precious & a blond Lab name Sheba and they are a big part of our family giving uncondional love. we too pray for rain for all the wild animals as well. GodBless APA’  thank you all for your prayers and Blessings for all of you. Rosiekareichert8@sbcglobal.net

Reply 





 Derrick Briand says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 6:12 pm 
It can be unbelievable the fires which have been occurring in Texas suitable now.  I just pray that everybody might be protected and they get rain really shortly.

Reply 





 Alva says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 7:52 pm 
Thank you Derrick!

Reply 








Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.




Name (required)



Mail (will not be published) (required)



Website
















Click To Join Us!










 Subscribe to Follow! 
Subscribe to pawsitivelytexas.com







Get the latest updates from Pawsitively Texas delivered via email! Never miss a great story!





Categories 
Advocacy Graphics to Share (3)

Animal Hoarding (1)

Animal Rescue (31)

Animal Rights US (1)

Best Practices (2)

Best Practices-Rescues (6)

Best Practices-Shelters (2)

Black Dogs (2)

Casual Fridays! (3)

Cruel Animal Shelters (2)

Facebook (2)

Family Pets (2)

Fundraising for Paws (2)

No Kill (6)

Pet Abuse – Animal Cruelty (4)

Pet Adoption (3)

Pet Videos (23)

Spay & Neuter Pets (4)

Texas Animal Rescues (1)

Texas Animal Rights Laws (3)

Things You May Have Missed! (1)

Tissue Alert (9)

Travel With Pets (1)

Uncategorized (6)

Waggin' Tail Stories (2)

When Shelters Fail the Pets (2)


Tagsadopt a pet
animal cruelty
animal rescue
Animal Rescue Networking
animal shelter pets
Austin Town Lake Animal Center
bett sundermeyer
Buddy & Max - a dog and cat story
carrollton shelter
cat
cute cat video
cute dog video
cute pet video
Dallas Animal Services
Dallas Mayoral Forum hosted by MAC
dog rescue
dogs
dog travel
Facebook Page Networking
fix austin
ft worth animal shelter
kittens
Koko's screen test for Red Dog the Movie
love unconditionally
low cost spay neuter clinics
marketing
nathan winograd
no kill
no kill advocacy
no kill ft worth
no kill houston
Old spice commercial parody
Pawsitively Texas
pet abuse
pet adoption
pets
pet transport
Red Dog the movie
Red Dog the Movie official trailer
ryan clinton
spay and neuter pets
stray dog
Texas pets
town lake animal control
traveling with pets










Spay/Neuter Your Pets! When you spay and neuter your pets, YOU help decrease the number of pets euthanized every day across Texas and throughout the USA! There are low-cost spay/neuter resources available too! Check our Resources tab above to learn more. 










pawsitivelytexas.com
		Copyright © 2011 All Rights Reserved	

Pawsitively Texas by Breeze Marketing MediaPowered by WordPress 










