lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2011 » April






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Wednesday, April 27, 2011
Hobo Lobo of Hamlin

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


Hobo Lobo of Hamlin is a side-scrolling webcomic by  Stevan Zivadinovic that uses multiple planes scrolling at different rates to give a nice dimensional effect, augmented with other touches of animation.
My screen captures above attempt to give some idea of the changing relationship of the planes, but they’re inadequate to the task; you need to see the actual effect.
You can use the controls at top to move through the panoramic images one “scene” at a time, or just grab the horizontal scrollbar at the bottom of the window and have at it.
The animation and multi-plane scrolling are apparently created in HTML and JavaScript rather than Flash, which means you should be able to view the effects on the iPad, but outdated desktop browsers may have issues. 
On his “What is this thing?” page, Zivadinovic implores users of Internet Explorer to get a real browser, as well as explaining a few other technical considerations and indicating his intended update schedule; according to which an update should be coming 1:25am (CDT) on this Friday, April 29th, 2011.
The strip, which appears to be loosely based on The Pied Piper of Hamlin, is only two sections long at the moment, but looks promising to be watched for coming updates.
Zivadinovic also has a primary website called The Nihilist Canary, where you can see more of his work.
[Via Scott McCloud] 


Link: http://hobolobo.net
Hobo Lobo: What is this thing?
http://nihilistcanary.com

Posted in:  Amusements,Webcomics   |   2 Comments »


Tuesday, April 26, 2011
Rachel Constantine

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:33 am 
 


Contemporary realist Rachel Constantine is based here in Philadelphia, where she studied at the University of the Arts, The Fleisher Art Memorial and the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.
Her work is featured in Alla Prima: A Contemporary Guide to Traditional Direct Painting by Al Gury, current chairman of the Painting department at PAFA; as well as in a number of other features and mentions in various periodicals.
Constantine has a nicely painterly approach, with rough edged areas of color contrasting with smoother passages in her definition of form. 
She focuses primarily on figurative and portrait subjects, but you will also find lively still life subjects and muted, quiet landscapes, as well as a selection of drawings, on her website.
[Via Mike Manley]


Link: www.rachelconstantine.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »


Monday, April 25, 2011
Ray Morimura

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:17 pm 
 


Tokyo born artist Ray Morimura creates woodblock and linocut prints that manage to feel at once traditional and modern. 
His crisp, sharp edges of color delineate forms that often repeat or combine to form patterns, at times varying in size to suggest perspective and distance.
Morimura studied painting at Tokyo Gakugel University. He originally worked in abstraction but, inspired by the prints of Shigeru Hatsuyama and Sumio Kawakami, he took up the study of woodplock prints.
[Via BibliOdyssey, on Twitter @BibliOdyssey]


Link: Ray Morimura on The Ren Brown Collection (note multi pages)
Brown.li
bumbumbum
Azuma Gallery
Tolman Collection

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Prints and Printmaking   |   5 Comments »


Friday, April 22, 2011
Jonathan Jones’ top five rabbits in art

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:08 pm 
 


I don’t know how small long-eared mammals (not to mention the shelled embryos of certain avian species and similarly shaped confections) came to be associated with the Christian holiday observance of Easter, but there they are, popping up in popular culture all over the place.
Jonathan Jones, writing in his OnArt blog on Guardian.co.uk, uses that association with the upcoming holiday to suggest his top five rabbits in art.
It’s a fun idea, but for one reason or another, his article is only accompanied (at least online) by a single image. I won’t second guess his choices (as I’m all onboard with four out of five), but I’ve take the liberty of supplementing his article with images and, where possible, links to better examples of  the works he mentions. 
Images above: The Virgin and Child with Saint Catherine and a Shepherd, known as The Madonna of the Rabbit by Titian (Tiziano Vecellio), Young Hare by Albrecht Dürer, the March Hare from Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland by Sir John Tenniel, Rabbit by Jeff Koons, early Bugs Bunny model sheet by Robert Givens.


Link: Easter special: top five rabbits in art
My previous related posts:
Titian (Tiziano Vecellio), also here and here
Sir John Tenniel, also here

Posted in:  Cartoons,Gallery and Museum Art   |   12 Comments »


Wednesday, April 20, 2011
Boris Indrikov

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:41 pm 
 


Russian graphic artist and painter Boris Indrikov was born in Lenningrad and currently lives in Moscow.
He worked for some years as an illustrator and book designer, and now creates gallery art in oil, sculpture and graphics. Aside from that, there is little additional information on his website bio (English passage below the Russian).
The gallery page showcases his oil paintings, fascinatingly detailed and, as revealed in the close-up crops provided for some of the newer images (above, second down), wonderfully textured.
I see possible influences in his work from Aisian art, Renaissance painting, Art Nouveau, contemporary science fiction and fantasy illustrators like Jean “Moebius” Giraud and perhaps a touch of Max Ernst, all of it woven into Indrikov’s own unique style.
In addition to the gallery links on the navigation bar, don’t miss the link from the home page to the  Violina Pattern gallery (above, bottom).
[Via BoingBoing]


Link: www.indrikov.com
deviantART
Vikol's Hall
Daily Art Fixx
Desigg.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Monday, April 18, 2011
More J.C. Leyendecker from Leif Peng and Roger Reed

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:15 pm 
 


Leif Peng, whose terrific blog Today’s Inspiration never fails to inform the mind and dazzle the eye, has recently published two posts on the great American Illustrator J.C. Leyendecker, adding to his already extensive posts on the subject: Leyendecker, Kuppenheimer, Arrow… and Beach and J.C. Leyendecker: “… a recluse locked in struggles of power and love in an ivory tower, driven by impossible goals that led to tragedy.”. 
In them he has had the gracious cooperation of Roger Reed of Illustration House, extracting fascinating nuggets for the posts from Reed’s text for the brochure of the November ’97 – May ’98 J.C. Leyendecker Exhibit at the Norman Rockwell Museum.
Peng has accompanied the text with relevant illustrations drawn in large part from the Leyendecker Pool on Flickr, from which I have also sourced the images above.


Link: Leyendecker, Kuppenheimer, Arrow... and Beach, on Today's Inspiration
J.C. Leyendecker: "... a recluse locked in struggles of power and love in an ivory tower, driven by impossible goals that led to tragedy."
Leyendecker search on on Today's Inspiration
Leyendecker Pool on Flickr
Some of my previous posts on J.C. Leyendecker:
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2011!
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2010
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2009
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2008
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2007
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year (2006)
Even more Leyendecker wonderfulness, in high resolution no less
J.C. Leyendecker on Illustration Art
The Haggin Museum Leyendecker Collection
J.C. Leyendecker; America's "Other" Illustrator
More Leyendecker and other great stuff
A little Bit of Leyendecker Greatness
Illustrators' Visions of Santa Claus
Thanks
J.C. Leyendecker

Posted in:  Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Sunday, April 17, 2011
Russian vintage science illustration blog

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:40 pm 
 


When I was in my early teens, I spent many hours staring in goggle-eyed fascination at the illustrations in “science magazines”, like Popular Science, Popular Mechanics and Science and Mechanics, that depicted future tech. 
The illustrators created scenes of potential space missions and spacecraft, both actually proposed and wildly imaginative, fantastic airships, monorails, undersea cities and other views of a promised idealized tech-wonderland future.
Apparently my adolescent counterparts in then-Soviet Russia were doing the same, as this wonderful Russian blog is showing us by posting vintage Russian science and space illustration from the 1960′s and 1970′s.
Like entertainment concept artists, these illustrators are showing us things that don’t exist, but might; in many cases, giving us and “X-ray” view with cutaways. 
Even though most of the more fanciful future tech didn’t come to be (I’m still waiting for my personal rocket pack and driveway gyrocopter), fascination with this kind of illustration remains strong. 
[Via ModernMecanix by way of BoingBoing]


Link: http://scienceillustration.mypage.ru

Posted in:  Illustration   |   5 Comments »


Friday, April 15, 2011
Michael Reardon

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:55 am 
 


Michael Reardon shows a master watercolorist’s skill for handling edges, from the delicate tonalist softness of mist shrouded foliage to the crisp sharpness of architectural forms, often contrasted in adjacent passages within the same work.
Reardon’s deft handling if architectural subjects, and the strong geometry underlying his compositions, no doubt owes something to his thirty plus years of experience in architectural illustration.
He paints his atmospheric and light filled landscapes and cityscapes both on location and in the studio. What I find particularly fascinating is his choice of strongly vertical compositions, which he uses to great effect in painting after painting.
In 2005, Reardon received the Gabriel Prize from the Western European Architecture Foundation, which included a three month residence in Paris to study some aspect of classical French architecture. He chose as his subjects the city’s 20th Century public fountains and painted many of them in watercolor.
These are the focus if an exhibit titled The Fountains of Paris currently at the Thomas Reynolds Gallery in San Francisco, which can be previewed on Reardon’s website. The exhibit runs until April 30, 2011.
Reardon has also collected works from the series into a a book: Fontaines: The Public Fountains of Paris, available from Blurb.
In addition, Reardon has paintings in current exhibitions of the Califorinia Art Club and American Watercolor Society, and is featured in the Spring 2011 issue of American Artist Watercolor magazine.
I found the news about the latter events from Reardon’s blog, which is also one of the best places to see his work, as the images are often linked to larger versions.


Link: www.reardonwatercolors.com
http://michaelrreardon.blogspot.com (blog)
The Fountains of Paris, Thomas Reynolds Gallery to 4/30, 2011
Fountains exhibit preview
Fontaines: The Public Fountains of Paris,  from Blurb

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Watercolor and Gouache   |   2 Comments »


Wednesday, April 13, 2011
Heritage Auctions

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:56 pm 
 


Heritage Auctions is an auction house that, like Sotheby’s, puts images of their items to be auctioned, notably including artworks,  online in relatively high resolution. 
Unlike Sotheby’s (and Christie’s), Heritage doesn’t constrain its hi-res images to a zooming box; instead giving you a high res image that you can view as a whole. The tradeoff, however, is that to gain access to the large images you must have an account and be logged in. The account is free and requires that you cough up your name, address, phone and email (no credit card number is required). 
I’ve certainly found it worthwhile to be able to view the large images of some of the great stuff they often have up for auction. They add you to a mailing list, but you can opt out, or choose news about only the categories of items in which you are interested. (Unfortunately, they seem unable or unwilling to distinguish between original comic book art and collectable comics.)
The art on Heritage is of a different stripe than that found in auctions on Sotheby’s and Christie’s (which often deal in the most expensive museum quality works that ever change hands by auction). Heritage does have some museum quality art, usually of lesser renown and often American. You will sometimes find gems by American Impressionists and painters that would be the focus of smaller, regional museums. 
One of the star categories of Heritage’s art auctions is their sales of original illustration art, like the upcoming 2011 May New York Signature Illustration Art Auction. Here you will find work by top illustrators like J.C. Leyendecker,  NC Wyeth, Arthur Rackham, Charles Dana Gibson, Dean Cornwell, Maxfield Parrish, James Montgomery Flagg, Howard Chandler Christy, Coby Whitmore, Haddon Sundblom, Frank Schoonover, Tom Lovell and many others.
From the home page you can find current and upcoming auctions. From the launch page of the individual auction you can click on individual items in the little slide show of Featured Items, or better, click on “View All Featured Items” to see them as a list. To see all items in the auction as a list with thumbnails, click on the main image associated with the auction (just under the title).
Find items in the list that you are interested in and click to open their page (I usually open in several in new browser tabs). On the detail page you will find information about the work, size, medium, estimated value and current bids. Clicking on “View Larger Image” shoots you further down the same page to a larger version, and often supplementary images of the artist’s signature, the frame, backing, etc. This is as far as you can go if you don’t have an account.
If you have an account and log in, you can click on “Look Closer” and open a glorious high-res image in a pop-up window. No scrolling zoom window, just a single image you van view as large as your monitor will allow (or download for future reference).
If that’s not enough, in the middle of the original page, between the small and medium size images, many of the individual images have thumbnailed links to other works by that artist that were previously offered for auction. 
An auction like this one can go on for hundreds of items. You can choose how many thumbnails to view per page at the bottom. At 50 per page, the May Illustration auction goes on for 16 pages of thumbnails. The pieces are arranged alphabetically by artist, except that at some point, they end the alphabetical listing and start it again with a second string lineup of lesser works, those with attribution in question and generally items of lesser value.
Somewhere toward the bottom of the 10th page in this auction, I encountered a number of drawings by Dean Cornwell, some of which had starting bid minimums of $1! 
You can read about the May Illustration Auction in more detail in reviews on Art Daily, Antique Trader and Matthew Innis’ Underpaintings. In the latter you will find a nice selection of highlights from the auction images.
You can also search the Heritage site in the right hand column of the home page for items from previous auctions, in categories like Illustration Art, Fine Art, Western and Texas Art, Comics and Comic Art, etc. 
As usual for resources like this, I’ll issue my Major Timesink Warning. Yow!
[Images above, each with detail: J.C. Leyendecker, Charles Dana Gibson, Dean Cornwell (painting), Dean Cornwell (drawing), Pruett Carter]


Link: www.ha.com
2011 May New York Signature Illustration Art Auction
Review on Underpaintings
Review on Antique Trader
Review on Art Daily
Some of my previous posts relevant to artists in the May 2011 auction:
J.C. Leyendecker
Dean Cornwell
Harvey Dunn
Arthur Rackham
Haddon Sundblom
Maxfield Parrish
Frank Schoonover
Tom Lovell
Andrew Loomis
Coby Whitmore
John Berkey
Michael Whelan
Also relevant:
Sotheby's
More Goodies from Sotheby's

Posted in:  Illustration   |   9 Comments »


Tuesday, April 12, 2011
Mike Corriero

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:56 pm 
 


Designing imaginary creatures takes more than just drawing or painting skills; good creatures, to my mind, require imagination and originality, or they seem like everybody else’s creatures.
Mike Corriero does terrific creatures.
 Corriero is a freelance concept artist and illustrator for the gaming and film industries. His clients include Radical Entertainment/Vivendi Universal Games, Challenge Games, Liquid Development, Piazo Publishing and Hasbro Inc. You can find a list of some of the projects he’s worked on, as well as publications in which his work has been featured in the Resume on his website, and the bio on CGHub, which also features a quickly accessed gallery of his work.
In the gallery on his own website, there are sections for Sketches, and finished Illustration and Concept art. When viewing the images, there is an “Enlarge” button above the main image that launches a much larger version (in most cases) in a new window.
There you can find his imaginative creatures and monsters, with multiple appendages, wild textures and strange shapes, and often painted with a touch for incorporating a range of colors into his renderings. You can also find environments and other illustrations.
Corriero works both digitally and in traditional media. There is a bit of information about his process in the FAQ on his site, and there are some process videos on Livestream.
Corriero has collected a number of his sketches in a book called Planet to Planet: Creatures and Strange Worlds, available from Lulu, and also has posters and prints available through Zazzle.
You can find more information about his work and projects on his blog.


Link: www.mikecorriero.com
http://mikecorriero.blogspot.com (blog)
CGHub
deviantART
Planet to Planet on Lulu
Livestream

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   2 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






