Anniston Star - Firefighters have yet to control Texas wildfire






















 



Daily Home




Jacksonville News




Piedmont Journal




Oxford Sun




Cleburne News




St. Clair Times




Longleaf Style






BamaEscapes













sign in





 


Home
News
Sports
Opinion
Blogs
Life
Entertainment
Multimedia
Extras
Businesses
Classifieds
Obituaries
Calendar
About Us
 



Digital Edition
My Content
My Profiles

My Events
My Blogs
My Buddies
Contests
Subscribe/Renew


Local News
Business
Monday Record
Crime & Public Safety
Crime Map
Gas Prices
Stocks
State
Nation & World
Community


Preps
Golf
Racing
My Team
Alabama
Auburn
JSU


Bama Blog
Auburn Blog
JSU Blog
Score Updates


Live Blogs
Behind The Star
Bama Blog
Auburn Beat
Gamecock Corner
Community Blogs


Digital Edition
Videos
Slideshows
Your Scene
WeatherPix
Documents

Live Blogs


Food
Celebrations
Religion
Community
WeatherPix
Parade Health & Food




Events


Best of
Music
Movies
Arts & Theater
Books
Games & Gadgets
Comics
Movie Showtimes
Events
Star Escapes


Editorials
Op-Ed Columns
Insight
Letters
Speak Out submission
Forums
Star Columnists




Special Reports
Online Polls
Carrier Appreciation
N.I.E.
Church Directory
Coupons

Parade Games


Restaurants
Shopping
Sports & Rec.
Real Estate
... more


Jobs
Cars
Real Estate
Apartments
Services
... more



Events
Blogs
Forum
Obituaries
Announcement


Contact Us
Social Media
Reporters
Columnists
Photo Reprints
Archives
Digital Edition
RSS
Advertising

Subscribe/Renew


 






 


articles
ads
businesses
events
profiles





 











 






 






 
















 






Firefighters have yet to control Texas wildfire


          by
          
Jim Vertuno and Michael GraczykAssociated Press


Associated Press


Sep 07, 2011 | 530 views |   | 5  |  | 




 

 

	BASTROP, Texas — One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.Raging with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin. An elite search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased humidity was moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report some containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said."Tonight should be a good night, tomorrow should be a good day — we hope," Nichols said late Tuesday. "The reason why it hasn't been able to be contained is the wind. We still have a lot of active fire on the line, but today was the first day we had very light wind."The blaze is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements' two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames."We lost everything," said Clements, who with his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand.""This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old said.Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. He later deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina."Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze that destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. The Postal Service delivered mail to burned homes where only mailboxes were left standing.John Chapman's home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a '57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: "You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.""The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I'm not going to worry about it," he said.About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires."The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."			
         


Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.





Share This Article
|








similar stories


Forest service fighting wildfire near Munford
 | 3 months ago


          by
          
Jason Bacajjbacaj@annistonstar.com


Anniston Star



Copyright 2011 Anniston Star. All rights reserved.




Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas
 | 6 days ago


          by
          
Michael Graczyk and Will WeissertAssociated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.




Perry leaves Texas wildfires, heads to GOP debate
 | 4 days ago


          by
          
Will WeissertAssociated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.




Two wildfires burn in Talladega National Forest
 | 6 months ago


          by
          
Cameron Steelecsteele@annistonstar.com


Anniston Star



Copyright 2011 Anniston Star. All rights reserved.




Pinhoti trail wildfire still burning but contained
 | 14 months ago


          by
          
Staff Reports


Anniston Star



Copyright 2011 Anniston Star. All rights reserved.





 










 




 

















Follow Us

















Stories


 



 


Search on for swimmer caught in Lee-churned waters
 | 09.05.11 - 03:28 am


          by
          
The Associated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.






A weakened Lee still poses flood threat in South
 | 09.05.11 - 03:29 am


          by
          
Jay ReevesAssociated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.






Tough economic climate as Obama seeks 2nd term
 | 09.05.11 - 03:24 am


          by
          
Charles BabingtonAssociated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.






Poll: Japanese support for US bases grows
 | 09.05.11 - 03:27 am


          by
          
Malcolm FosterAssociated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.






Analysis: Cheney defends Iraq war, skips failures
 | 09.05.11 - 03:26 am


          by
          
Steven R. HurstAssociated Press


Associated Press



Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.




































help

contact us

software copyright © 2011 matchbin inc. content copyright © 2011 Anniston Star. business listing data provided in part by Localeze.

this software is in a public beta test phase read our privacy policy

Anniston Star - Local News, Business, Sports, Events, Blogs, Videos, Podcasts is in Anniston, AL












