Breaking news and opinion on The Blaze		





 
TheBlaze




The Stories
Business
Faith
Technology
The Blog
 


Sign In
Sign Up




User Profile
Log Out






Hot Topics:
Israel9/11Obama Jobs ProposalGBTV 






 












The Latest

Lib Writer’s Al Jazeera Op-Ed: ‘Let’s Forget 9/11′ & ‘Haven’t We Had Enough of Ourselves?’
‘Islam is Only As Strong As We Are Weak’: Swiss Pol Warns EU of ‘Succeeding’ Islamic ‘Dogma’
Is SpongeBob Making Your Kids Dumber?
‘Joy Cometh in the Morning’: Watch Obama’s 9/11 Speech at the Kennedy Center
‘U-S-A, U-S-A’: 9/11 Remembered at Sporting Events Across the Country and World
Military Jets Safely Escort Flights to NYC and Detroit After Passengers Made Suspicious Trips to Bathrooms
Serena Williams’ Words Get Ugly in Loss at U.S. Open
Obama Will Deliver Jobs Bill to Congress Monday
Courageous 9/11 Firefighter Describes Miraculously Surviving the Twin Towers’ Collapse







Scenes From the Day of 9/11 Ceremony

 




NFL Teams Show 9/11 Solidarity

 




Fox Flashback: 9/11 as it Happened 

 




Serena Tears Into Umpire at U.S. Open

 





The Stories



Watch‘Islam is Only As Strong As We Are Weak’: Swiss Pol Warns EU of ‘Succeeding’ Islamic ‘Dogma’ World
"This dogma is gnawing away at the pillars of our system of laws, wherever it is allowed some space." Read More » 


 Is SpongeBob Making Your Kids Dumber? Entertainment
"What kids watch matters, it's not just how much they watch." Read More » 


 Watch‘U-S-A, U-S-A’: 9/11 Remembered at Sporting Events Across the Country and World Sports
 Read More » 


Military Jets Safely Escort Flights to NYC and Detroit After Passengers Made Suspicious Trips to Bathrooms US
 Read More » 




 Courageous 9/11 Firefighter Describes Miraculously Surviving the Twin Towers’ Collapse US
"I didn't think I was going to live." Read More » 


 WatchRumsfeld Describes What 9/11 Was Like as Secretary of Defense and at the Pentagon US
 Read More » 


 WatchSerena Williams’ Words Get Ugly in Loss at U.S. Open Sports
"If you ever see me walking down the hall, look the other way." Read More » 


F-16 Jets Intercept and Escort NYC-Bound Plane After 3 Passengers Locked Themselves in Bathrooms US
A law enforcement official said it wasn't thought to be terrorism. Read More » 


 Secret Service Probes Threatening Messages Left on White House Facebook Page US
"We'll come to u white house sooooooooooon." Read More » 


 WatchUK Muslim Protesters Burn American Flag in Front of US Embassy During 9/11 Moment of Silence World
"USA — terrorist state!" 365 Comments » 


 Blaze Original VideoWhere Glenn Was on 9/11/01: Beck’s Voice of Reason and Public Prayer Calling for Reflection and Clarity for Our Leaders — Rare & Moving On-Air Highlights From the 9/11/01 Glenn Beck Program Media
 245 Comments » 


 WatchAl Jazeera: Pakistanis Still Skeptical of Bin Laden’s Death World
"We have never seen any video, we have never seen any picture of bin Laden, and we have never seen a dead body." Read More » 


 WatchAnti-American Cleric to Followers: Stop Attacking US Troops So They’ll Leave Iraq World
"if the withdrawal doesn't happen ... the military operations will be resumed in a new and tougher way." Read More » 


 WatchFour Terror Suspects Arrested in Sweden on Suspicion of Plotting Attack World
Arts center evacuated in country's largest city. Read More » 


New York Times: Israel Senses Wider Siege Beyond Cairo World
"Initial Israeli fears about the Arab Spring uprisings have begun to materialize in concrete ways."  Read More » 


 Blaze Original VideoHe’s Going to Break the Unpatriotic, Crazy Tea Party Bubble: Van Jones Reveals the Strategy Behind Why the Unions & Left Are Villainizing the ‘Enemy’ Tea Party at a Progressive Convention Politics
 611 Comments » 


 WatchDid PBS Remove a Major Gaffe from the President’s Jobs Speech? Media
 202 Comments » 


 Navy SEAL Combat Knife Made From World Trade Center Steel to Benefit Troops Killed in Copter Crash US
 Read More » 


 Military Court Upholds Life Sentence for Osama’s Media Specialist Crime
 Read More » 


WatchMinnesota Gophers Coach Has Seizure as Game Ends Sports
 Read More » 


 WatchBloomberg Defends Exclusion of Clergy & First Responders on 9/11…Some Cops Not Convinced US
"We just don't have room for them." 410 Comments » 


 WatchWatch the Speeches Bush, Clinton and Biden Gave at the Flight 93 Memorial in Pa. US
"The moment America's democracy was under attack our citizens defied their captors by holding a vote." Read More » 


 Need a 2012 Calendar? Consider These ‘Great American Conservative Women’ Politics
 Read More » 


 ‘Austin Powers’ Actor Sentenced to Life in Prison for 1990 Rape and Torture Crime
 Read More » 


 WatchReport: Feds Concerned 9/11 Terror Threat May Involve Dirty Bomb, Times Square Strike US
 Read More » 


 Pastors Hold Vigil Outside Ground Zero to Protest Lack of Clergy at 9/11 Ceremony Faith
"we know the importance of prayer and the presence of clergy." Read More » 


 9/11 Threat Suspects Could Be U.S. Citizens, Officials Say US
 Read More » 


Israeli Ambassador Flees as Egyptians Break Into Embassy in Cairo
 236 Comments » 


 S.C. Gov. Nikki Haley Calls Reporter ‘Little Girl’ Over Negative Story Media
"an easy way to demean a reporter and take away her credibility." 195 Comments » 


 NBC News Twitter Hacked by ‘The Script Kiddies’: Falsely Claim Ground Zero Attack Media
The group is previously known for posting a false Obama assassination report on the FOX News Twitter.  Read More » 


 WatchDCCC Pulls Campaign Ad Featuring Airplane Flying Over NYC Skyline Politics
"made a small tweak to remove the brief image of the skyline." Read More » 


 AFL-CIO President Says Beck, Limbaugh ‘Pushed Open the Door to Hate’ After 9/11 US
"frothing talk show hosts" 1091 Comments » 


Govt. Spends $4 Million Dollars to House 12 Homeless People Government
Why not buy them a house instead? Read More » 


 What Does Your Ring Finger Tell You About You? Science
Differences in finger length have been linked to autism, depression, heart attacks, and cancer. Read More » 


‘We’re Under Attack’: Gibson Guitar CEO Was Not Too Impressed With ‘Big Liberal’ Obama’s Jobs Speech Business
“He is using the levers of government to not only redistribute, but to penalize.”  Read More » 


 ‘Captain Jihad’: Ex al-Qaeda-Linked Terrorist Now a Comic Book Charactera World
"This is my jihad now." Read More » 



 Lib Writer’s Al Jazeera Op-Ed: ‘Let’s Forget 9/11′ & ‘Haven’t We Had Enough of Ourselves?’ US
"[I]sn't it time to rip the Band-Aid off the wound, to remove 9/11 from our collective consciousness?" Read More » 


 Watch‘Joy Cometh in the Morning’: Watch Obama’s 9/11 Speech at the Kennedy Center Government
"Our faith - in God and each other - that has not changed." Read More » 


 Obama Will Deliver Jobs Bill to Congress Monday Politics
 195 Comments » 


‘An Occasion for Shame’: NY Times‘ Paul Krugman Attacks ’Fake Heroes’ Bush, Giuliani in Stunning 9/11 Blog Post Media
 823 Comments » 


 WatchPaul Simon Performs ‘The Sound of Silence’ at 9/11 Memorial US
 Read More » 


WatchAuthorities Search for Culprits in Florida Nightclub Shooting that Left Two Dead and 22 Wounded Crime
 Read More » 


 Cantor Fitzgerald: The Firm that Lost Over 650 on 9/11 Thriving Ten Years After the Attack Business
25 percent of Cantor's profits for five years were set aside to be distributed to the families, which in the end amounted to $180 million. Their health care costs were to be covered for 10 years.  Read More » 


 Watch77 US Troops Wounded in Taliban Truck Bombing on Afghan Base US
Two Afghan civilians dead. Read More » 


 9/11 Anniversary: Scenes From the Day US
 Read More » 


WatchFox News Flashback: 9/11 as it Happened On-Air in 18:34 Powerful Moments Media
 Read More » 


 Marking 9/11 Around the World World
"We watched live on television the brutal murder of 3,000 individuals. We reacted with near unanimous horror and sadness." Read More » 


 Blaze Original VideoCivil Rights Railroad: Jesse Jackson Calls for Holder‘s DOJ to Prosecute Gov Walker Because He Stopped Minorities’ Access to Jobs When He Blocked High Speed Rail Project Politics
 456 Comments » 


 Rumsfeld: Defense Cuts Put America at Risk for Another Attack Government
“The Department of Defense is not what’s causing the debt and the deficit.  It’s the entitlement programs." Read More » 


 Watch‘SOBs United’: Tea Party Members Protest Hoffa Union Worker Rally US
"a man who is supposed to be dignified and so powerful calling us sons of bitches." 309 Comments » 


Officials Say Evidence Not Yet Found of al-Qaida 9/11 Anniversary Strike US
 Read More » 


Lone Survivor of Plane Crash Found Alive After 3 Days in the Amazon Jungle World
Vidal told his rescuers that he wanted to talk to his daughters and tell them to have faith in God. Read More » 


 WatchThe Video You Didn’t Know You Needed: A Bird Trying to Walk Down an Escalator
 Read More » 


 Watch163 Dead After Tanzania Ferry Sinks, More Than 100 Still Missing World
"We found the survivors holding onto mattresses and fridges and anything that could float." Read More » 


 WatchHerman Cain Sings ‘God Bless America’ in 9/11 Video Politics
 239 Comments » 


 Dutch Artist to Create 9/11 Memorial Celebrating Taliban Fighters World
He believes the Islamic threat “is a product of Western propaganda.”  308 Comments » 


 Too Quiet? NFL Player Says Fans Aren‘t Cheering in Football Stadiums Because They’re Playing With Their iPads Sports
"get loud and make it a home-field advantage for us." Read More » 


 Zombie Virus Takes Over and Liquifies Caterpillars Science
"...as they get sicker they stay up in the trees and die up there." Read More » 


 WatchFather of Flight 93 Hero Todd Beamer Reflects on Son Storming Cockpit, Shouting ‘Let’s Roll’ US
"There is a hole in our family, like there is in so many families..."  Read More » 


 New WTC Greenest Skyscraper, Tallest in Lower Manhattan Technology
 Read More » 


 Mental Illness Grounds for Denying Entrance to U.S.? Government
"...it's valuable information, knowing that perhaps this person may harm themselves." Read More » 


 NFL Nixes Rumors of Fines, Will Allow Players to Wear Special 9/11 Gear Sports
"By far the best fine I will ever have to pay. Thanks." Read More » 


 WatchShould Prayer Be Allowed At the Ground Zero Memorial Event (Poll)? Faith
"Its almost like [Bloomberg's] trying to re-write history." 344 Comments » 


 WatchBrave F-16 Pilot Considered ‘Ramming’ Flight 93 on 9/11 US
"I would essentially be a kamikaze pilot." 205 Comments » 


 College Threatens to Cancel 9/11 Tribute Unless Flags From Other Countries Are Included US
"we cannot ignore the Chinese and Muslim students who also suffered losses." 346 Comments » 


 Mel Gibson Planning…a Jewish Action Movie? Entertainment
About the life of Judah Maccabee. Read More » 


Boehner, Biden Caught on Camera Chatting About Golf ‘Round of the Decade’ Politics
“One day I play great, the next day I play awful." Read More » 


 Libyan Mass Grave Uncovered: Bodies of Blindfolded Detainees Slain by Gadhafi’s Military US
More atrocities will come to light.  Read More » 


 WatchMaxine Waters: Congressional Black Caucus ‘Handprint All Over’ Obama’s Jobs Plan Politics
 389 Comments » 


 WatchExplicit Language Warning: Longshore Union Member Attacks Media: ‘Get Your F–ing Camera Out of Here’ Media
He was clearly not the ILWU's PR person.  561 Comments » 
 


  Newsletter 


Sign Up



 Popular Stories

‘An Occasion for Shame’: NY Times‘ Paul Krugman Attacks ’Fake Heroes’ Bush, Giuliani in Stunning 9/11 Blog Post 823 CommentsHe’s Going to Break the Unpatriotic, Crazy Tea Party Bubble: Van Jones Reveals the Strategy Behind Why the Unions & Left Are Villainizing the ‘Enemy’ Tea Party at a Progressive Convention 611 CommentsCivil Rights Railroad: Jesse Jackson Calls for Holder‘s DOJ to Prosecute Gov Walker Because He Stopped Minorities’ Access to Jobs When He Blocked High Speed Rail Project 456 CommentsBloomberg Defends Exclusion of Clergy & First Responders on 9/11…Some Cops Not Convinced 410 CommentsUK Muslim Protesters Burn American Flag in Front of US Embassy During 9/11 Moment of Silence 365 Comments
Faith 

Pastors Hold Vigil Outside Ground Zero to Protest Lack of Clergy at 9/11 Ceremony 157 CommentsShould Prayer Be Allowed At the Ground Zero Memorial Event (Poll)? 344 CommentsUpdate: Christian Cross Now Allowed on Man’s Lawn After NJ Town Amends Ordinance 103 CommentsIs Phoenix‘s ’Goddess Temple’ Actually a Brothel? 132 CommentsBilly Graham’s Daughter: 9/11 Was ‘A Wake-up Call‘ But ’We’re Still Sleeping!’ 122 Comments 

 Business 

Cantor Fitzgerald: The Firm that Lost Over 650 on 9/11 Thriving Ten Years After the Attack Read MoreSo, Just How Much Energy Does Google Need to Power its Massive Empire? Read MoreU.S. Stocks Plunge Amid European Economic Fears Read MoreAnnoyed Euro Central Bank President Defends ‘Fiercely Independent’ Euro Read More‘We’re Under Attack’: Gibson Guitar CEO Was Not Too Impressed With ‘Big Liberal’ Obama’s Jobs Speech 126 Comments 

 Technology 

Is SpongeBob Making Your Kids Dumber? Read MoreZombie Virus Takes Over and Liquifies Caterpillars 104 CommentsFormer Yahoo CEO Bartz Could Lose $10 Million for Calling Board Members ‘Doofuses’ Read MoreNew WTC Greenest Skyscraper, Tallest in Lower Manhattan Read MoreWhat Does Your Ring Finger Tell You About You? 133 Comments 

 The Blog

Cyndi Lauper flubs National Anthem on 9/119/11: In memoriam‘Solyndra for Dummies’PBS posts incomplete Obama speech transcript, hiding gaffe (updated)NY Times: Perry a ‘self-proclaimed provocateur’
  Glenn Beck Radio 
Listen to Glenn Beck 24/7
Listen Now


  
The Wire

French nuclear safety body says an explosion has rocked nuclear plant in southern FranceBroadcom to acquire NetLogic for about $3.7BColfax to buy Charter Intl in $2.4 B dealGermany, Italy at UN court over WWII compensationLocal official says at least 61 people killed in gasoline pipeline explosion in Kenya slumMcGraw-Hill sets plan to split into 2 companiesEU extends protection for singers and musiciansUnions hold off bankruptcy action against Saab

Advertisement






Thanks for the tip!
 Submitting your tip... please wait!


 Have a Tip?
There was a problem submitting your tip.Please try again later.
Give us a Scoop!





TheBlaze
About TheBlazeThe StoriesThe BlogSite SupportBlaze StoreJobs 
All information © 2011 TheBlaze LLC



































