Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “President Barack Obama”
        
                                



President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


    
                By UCN on September 12, 2011  4:32 AM





U.S. President Barack Obama pauses as he speaks during the "A Concert For Hope" event, hosted by Washington National Cathedral, to mark the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on September 11, 2011 at the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC. (Alex Wong/Getty Images North America)Ten years after the nation was unified in horror, President Barack Obama honored the legacy of Sept. 11 victims on Sunday by personally tracing the trail of the terrorist attacks, proudly declaring that the decade since has proven "America does not give in to fear."


            Continue reading President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 .
        





President Obama Reads from Psalm 46 at World Trade Center 9/11 Memorial Service 


    
                By UCN on September 11, 2011  8:01 AM





President Barack Obama embraces the family member of a 9/11 victim as first lady Michelle Obama looks on during a ceremony at the World Trade Center site in New York on Sunday. (Chip Somodevilla  /  Pool via EPA)President Barack Obama read a psalm about refuge and strength and the names of the Sept. 11 dead echoed across a transformed ground zero Sunday as the nation and world marked 10 years since the worst terrorist attack on American soil.


            Continue reading President Obama Reads from Psalm 46 at World Trade Center 9/11 Memorial Service .
        





Obama Proclaims 9/11 Weekend as National Days of Prayer and Remembrance 


    
                By UCN on September 11, 2011  6:05 AM





U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama visit Section 60 at Arlington National Cemetery September 10, 2011 in Arlington, Virginia. Section 60 is the final resting place of those service members killed during the War on Terror and buried in Arlington. (Pool/Getty Images North America)Commemorating the 10th anniversary of 9/11, President Barack Obama proclaimed this weekend, Friday though Sunday, as National Days of Prayer and Remembrance.


            Continue reading Obama Proclaims 9/11 Weekend as National Days of Prayer and Remembrance .
        





New York, D. C. On Alert Over 9/11 Anniversary Threat 


    
                By UCN on September 10, 2011  2:00 PM





A man walks past a newspaper headline reading "9/11 Terror Threat" in Manhattan on September 9, 2011 in New York City. (Mario Tama/Getty Images)Undaunted by talk of a new terror threat, New Yorkers and Washingtonians wove among police armed with assault rifles and waited with varying degrees of patience at security checkpoints Friday while intelligence officials scrambled to nail down information on a possible al-Qaida strike timed to coincide with the 10th anniversary of 9/11.


            Continue reading New York, D. C. On Alert Over 9/11 Anniversary Threat .
        





After Embassy Storming, Ties Strained Between Egypt and Israel 


    
                By UCN on September 10, 2011 11:52 AM





Egyptian protesters dismantled a concrete wall which was in front of the Israeli embassy in Cairo. (Khaled Elfiqi/European Pressphoto Agency)The storming of the Israeli embassy by a mob of Egyptian protesters inflicted a "severe injury to the fabric of peace" between the two countries, Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned on Saturday, as both sides' leadership tried to contain the worst crisis in ties since their 1979 peace treaty.


            Continue reading After Embassy Storming, Ties Strained Between Egypt and Israel .
        





Entire Towns Under Water as River begins to Recede in Pennsylvania, New York 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  3:58 PM





Floodwaters of the Susquehanna River partially submerge homes and an SUV  in West Pittston, Pa., Friday. (Matt Rourke / Associated Press)Northern stretches of the swollen Susquehanna River began receding Friday after days of rainfall from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee flooded communities from Virginia to New York, leading to evacuation orders for nearly 100,000 people. Some evacuees were allowed back home.


            Continue reading Entire Towns Under Water as River begins to Recede in Pennsylvania, New York .
        





Fallen Crane Forces Change In 9/11 Events at National Cathedral 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  3:41 AM





After the toppling of a massive crane at Washington National Cathedral on Wednesday, two major events planned for this weekend's commemoration of the tenth anniversary of September 11 have been forced to change venues while another has been postponed to a later date.


            Continue reading Fallen Crane Forces Change In 9/11 Events at National Cathedral .
        





9/11 Anniversary: 'Credible but Unconfirmed' Terror Threat Is Out There 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  3:38 AM





Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano walks onstage to speak about the importance of intelligence gathering to protect the United States, on September 7, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images North America)A threat tied to the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks is revealed. An Obama administration official says the information is focused on New York City or Washington.


            Continue reading 9/11 Anniversary: 'Credible but Unconfirmed' Terror Threat Is Out There .
        





Obama Offers $447 Billion Jobs Plan, Urges Congress to Pass It Now 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011  3:19 AM





U.S. President Barack Obama greets Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH) (R) before addressing a Joint Session of Congress at the U.S. Capitol September 8, 2011 in Washington, DC. Obama addressed both houses of the U.S. legislature to highlight his plan to create jobs for millions of out of work Americans. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images North America)Wasting no time, President Barack Obama is pitching to the public his $447 billion jobs program of tax cuts and new spending after bluntly telling Congress to "stop the political circus" and fix the economy.


            Continue reading Obama Offers $447 Billion Jobs Plan, Urges Congress to Pass It Now .
        





Federal Appeals Court Throws Out Obama Health Care Challenges 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:50 PM





The law's supporters have embraced the tax argument because Congress has a clear authority to tax. (AP Photo)A federal appeals court on Thursday threw out two challenges to President Barack Obama's health care overhaul on procedural grounds.


            Continue reading Federal Appeals Court Throws Out Obama Health Care Challenges .
        





Rick Perry Center of Attention in First GOP Debate 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:58 AM





Candidates (L to R) Rick Santorum, Newt Gingrich, U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-MN), Mitt Romney, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, U.S. Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX), Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman, Jr. take the stage before the start of the Ronald Reagan Centennial GOP Presidential Primary Candidates Debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library on September 7, 2011 in Simi Valley, California. (David McNew/Getty Images North America)Quick to tangle, Republican presidential rivals Rick Perry and Mitt Romney sparred vigorously over job creation and Social Security Wednesday night in a feisty campaign debate that marked a contentious new turn in the race to pick a 2012 challenger to President Barack Obama.


            Continue reading Rick Perry Center of Attention in First GOP Debate .
        





Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:51 AM





Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster School Road near Needville, Texas, on Wednesday afternoon, Sept. 7, 2011. (AP Photo/The Courier, Patric Schneider)Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.


            Continue reading Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires .
        





Repair Crane Topples Over at Washington National Cathedral 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  2:36 PM





Part of a 500-foot construction crane lies next to the Washington National Cathedral on Wednesday after falling amid thunderstorms, damaging two buildings and several vehicles. (Carolyn Kaster  /  AP)A crane used to help repair the main tower of the earthquake-struck Washington National Cathedral, toppled over Wednesday, inflicting fresh damage at the site of the US capital's best-known house of worship.


            Continue reading Repair Crane Topples Over at Washington National Cathedral .
        





Kennedy Center Honors: Diamond, Streep, Cook, Rollins and Yo-Yo Ma 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  2:09 PM





The good times never seemed so good for Neil Diamond.


            Continue reading Kennedy Center Honors: Diamond, Streep, Cook, Rollins and Yo-Yo Ma .
        





Obama Expected to Propose $300 Billion to Jump-Start Jobs in Speech 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  3:47 AM





President Barack Obama smiles after speaking at a Labor Day event sponsored by the Metro Detroit Central Labor Council on September 5, 2011 in Detroit, Michigan. (Bill Pugliano/Getty Images North America)The economy weak and the public seething, President Barack Obama is expected to propose $300 billion in tax cuts and federal spending Thursday night to get Americans working again. Republicans offered Tuesday to compromise with him on jobs - but also assailed his plans in advance of his prime-time speech.


            Continue reading Obama Expected to Propose $300 Billion to Jump-Start Jobs in Speech .
        





Robert Gates Named Chancellor of William & Mary 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011 12:58 PM





United States Secretary of Defense Robert Gates (L) and President Barack Obama salute during the presentation of the colors during Armed Forces Farewell Tribute on the River Parade Field at the Pentagon June 30, 2011 in Arlington, Virginia. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images North America)The College of William and Mary in Virginia has named former U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates as its next chancellor.


            Continue reading Robert Gates Named Chancellor of William & Mary .
        





WH Estimates Irene's Federal Cost Will Be $1.5 Billion 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:32 AM





"We will need roughly $1.5 billion in additional disaster relief," Budget Director Jack Lew says. (AP Photo)The White House estimated on Monday that Hurricane Irene will cost federal taxpayers $1.5 billion in disaster relief, further ballooning a government account that was already the focus of fresh partisan friction between President Barack Obama and Congress.


            Continue reading WH Estimates Irene's Federal Cost Will Be $1.5 Billion .
        





GOP Candidates at S. C. Forum Court Tea Partiers 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:26 AM





Republican presidential candidates Rep. Michelle Bachmann (R-MN), businessman Herman Cain, former Georgia Congressman Newt Gingrich, Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX) and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney attend the American Principles Project Palmetto Freedom Forum, September 5, 2011 in Columbia, South Carolina. (Stephen Morton/Getty Images North America)Pledging fidelity to the Constitution and vowing to carry the tea party's priorities to the White House, the Republicans chasing the GOP's presidential nomination pitched themselves Monday to their party's libertarian activists as the strongest candidates to roll back four years of President Barack Obama's tenure.


            Continue reading GOP Candidates at S. C. Forum Court Tea Partiers .
        





President Obama in Detroit on Labor Day Presses Congress to Create Jobs 


    
                By UCN on September  5, 2011  2:37 PM





President Barack Obama delivers a speech during a Labor Day event sponsored by the Metro Detroit Central Labor Council on September 5, 2011 in Detroit, Michigan. (Bill Pugliano/Getty Images North America)President Barack Obama said Monday that congressional Republicans must put their country ahead of their party and vote to create new jobs as he used a boisterous Labor Day rally to aim a partisan barb at the GOP.


            Continue reading President Obama in Detroit on Labor Day Presses Congress to Create Jobs .
        





President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:23 PM





President Barack Obama walks with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Fayette Avenue in Wayne, N.J., Sunday, Sept. 4, 2011, as he visits flood damage caused by Hurricane Irene. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)President Barack Obama stood on a bridge overlooking the rain-swollen and fast-rushing Passaic River in Paterson, New Jersey's third-largest city, and said Sunday the federal government would work to rebuild towns recovering from Hurricane Irene's wrath.


            Continue reading President Obama Visits New Jersey, Pledges Federal Help for Irene Recovery .
        





                                    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14  Next >












 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










