
            Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes |
                World news |
        guardian.co.uk









Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on


Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off




Jump to content [s]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]



Sign in
Mobile



		
	        About us
    


About us


Contact us


Press office


Guardian Print Centre


Guardian readers' editor


Observer readers' editor


Terms of service


Privacy policy


Advertising guide


Digital archive


Digital edition


Guardian Weekly


Buy Guardian and Observer photos


Subscribe







		
	        Today's paper
    


The Guardian


G2 features


Comment and debate


Editorials, letters and corrections


Obituaries


Other lives


Sport


MediaGuardian


Subscribe





		
	        Subscribe
    


Subscribe to the Guardian


iPhone app


Kindle


Extra


Guardian Weekly


Digital edition


All our services
















The Guardian
UK and World news
User comments
Web







News


Sport


Comment


Culture


Business


Money


Life & style


Travel


Environment


TV


Blogs


Data


Mobile


Offers


Jobs






News


World news




UK


Europe


US


China


Middle East


Africa


South and Central Asia


Asia Pacific


Americas


News A-Z








Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes





Tweet this









reddit this









AP foreign, Wednesday September 7 2011 



JIM VERTUNO
Associated Press= BASTROP, Texas (AP) — Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving hundreds of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.
As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry flew off to a Republican presidential debate in California as authorities commanded operations fighting the disaster.
At least two people have died in the wildfire, which destroyed nearly 800 homes and blackened about 45 square miles (116 square kilometers) in and around the city of Bastrop, outside Austin, the state capital.
The Texas Forest Service said Wednesday that blaze had consumed 785 homes, making it the most catastrophic of the fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas. One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history has caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.
But Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald also sounded an optimistic tone, saying firefighters had a "good night" and that no new structures were lost overnight in the battle to contain the 33,000-acre (13,350-hectare) blaze about 25 miles east of Austin. Containment remained at 30 percent.
The forest service said it responded to a total of 19 new fires Wednesday totaling 1,490 acres (600 hectares) across the state, bringing the count over the past week to more than 170 fires consuming more than 130,000 acres (52,600 hectares).
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.
The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts.
"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop.
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons (5,680 liters) of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres (400 hectares) Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre (3,230-hectare) fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) fire burned in heavy timberland.
---
Associated Press writers Michael Graczyk in Houston; Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Betsy Blaney in Lubbock; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio; and AP photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop contributed to this report.

    




Printable version


larger | 
			smaller 


World news



Printable version


















On World news





Most viewed


Zeitgeist


Latest




Last 24 hours



1. 
Jimmy Carter: 'We never dropped a bomb. We never fired a bullet. We never went to war'


2. 
Turkish PM arrives in Cairo as Israel recovers from embassy assault


3. 
9/11: the tragedy that engulfed our fathers


4. 
Gaddafi's son Saadi 'has arrived in Niger'


5. 
Moqtada al-Sadr orders halt to attacks on US troops stationed in Iraq


More most viewed




Last 24 hours


9/11 anniversary: photographers recall day of horror - interactive slideshow


Tenth anniversary of 9/11 attacks – in pictures


9/11 10th anniversary: Ground Zero ceremony - video


Syrian soldiers executed for refusing to target activists


9/11: the tragedy that engulfed our fathers


More zeitgeist


What is Zeitgeist?
Zeitgeist is an experiment in showing trending news, topics and articles from the Guardian. Find out more in our blog post.





Last 24 hours



1. 
Julius Malema found guilty of hate speech


2. 
Pipeline fire kills dozens in Nairobi slum


3. 
Egypt threatens to use live rounds in protest crackdown


4. 
From the archive, 12 September 1905: The great Zambesi Bridge


5. 
 Libya, Egypt and Middle East unrest - live updates


All today's stories









Our correspondents on Twitter


Follow all the top stories of the day on Twitter with the Guardian's world news team
Auto update every minute On | Off




paulxharris: More than a little unnerving... French nuclear plant rocked by explosion http://t.co/fkbyLNq #nuclear #france
about 3 minutes ago



julianborger: Plant at Marcoule treats low radioactivity waste.Was in trouble in 2010 over "gaps in its security culture" http://t.co/VjtMrdB #nuclear
about 12 minutes ago



julianborger: There was a incident in March at the same Marcoule reprocessing site, reports Rue 89 on French #nuclear accident Je lis http://t.co/lAAzDdJ
about 21 minutes ago



• Read more tweets from our foreign news team
• Follow all our correspondents on a Twitter list



Bestsellers from the Guardian shop






The Killing: Series 1 on DVD
Save £27 on the RRP. Revisit the first series of the Danish murder mystery TV hit before season 2 starts in autumn.
From: £32.99




Visit the Guardian reader offers shop
See all offers and services from the Guardian












This week's bestsellers



1. 
River Cottage Veg Every Day!

                        
	                        by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall
                        
                        
                        £25.00



2. 
Life and Fate

                        
	                        by Vasily Grossman
                        
                        
                        £9.99



3. 
School Wars

                        
	                        by Melissa Benn
                        
                        
                        £12.99



4. 
Little History of Philosophy

                        
	                        by Nigel Warburton
                        
                        
                        £14.99



5. 
Back from the Brink

                        
	                        by Alistair Darling
                        
                        
                        £19.99






	            Search the Guardian bookshop
	        



Search








Sponsored feature





















Find the latest jobs in your sector:

Arts & heritage
Charities
Education
Environment
Government
Graduate


Health
Marketing & PR
Media
Sales
Senior executive
Social care


Browse all jobs













Director, Advancement (Global Change Institute)
Brisbane, Australia | Competitive salary and benefits 
THE UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND 










 
		
	        Hot topics
    




Hurricane Irene


Libya - live updates


Libya


9/11 10 years on


Ben Bernanke






License/buy our content

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
Privacy policy

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
Terms & conditions

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
Advertising guide

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
Accessibility

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
A-Z index

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
Inside guardian.co.uk blog

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
About guardian.co.uk

					
  | 							    
																																										
				
		
		
			
						
		
Join our dating site today



© 2011 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.











































