Wildfire burns near Magnolia




thingstodoinbostonthisweekend.com things to do in boston this weekend



Follow me on TwitterRSS Feeds

Home
hotels in boston
cheap hotels in boston
Privacy Policy















« Dems’ point man for Charlotte stage
UFC 141 Fight Card: Brock Lesnar Vs. Alistair Overeem Set As Main Event »



Wildfire burns near Magnolia









Deadly wildfires have burned more than 118,000 acres and destroyed at least 700 homes statewide, including a large blaze burning in forests in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties that has blackened thousands of acres, forced hundreds of residents to flee and shut down several roads and schools.
Firefighters have brought under control fires that erupted in the FM 1774 and FM 1486 area, officials said late this afternoon, but continue to extinguish hot spots that flare up. Fires in the three-county area have burned more than 7,500 acres, officials said.
Later Tuesday, officials lifted mandatory evacuations for Montgomery County residents east of FM 1486. The area includes the Shady Oaks Boulevard, Shady Oaks, Shady Lane, Country Oaks, Weeren Road, North Hall Drive, South Hall Drive, Doma, and Sandy Hill Roads, officials said.
In Central Texas, a massive wildfire that destroyed at least 600 homes has killed two people, authorities said Tuesday. Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said he had no details about the victims, including when or how they died. 
The blaze near Magnolia has charred 3,000 acres near FM 1488 and FM 1774, and flames are moving southwest, according to Montgomery County Emergency Management. Magnolia Independent School District said schools would be closed Wednesday for a second day because of the flames.
Some 20 homes have burned in the fire; 150 are immediately threatened; and 100 more are in the blaze’s path, say Texas Forest Service officials.
John Turner and John Morrison don’t know if they are still neighbors in their Magnolia RV trailer park off FM 1488in Waller County.
The two friends were living in identical trailers next to each other when they evacuated Monday because of a wildfire burning out of control. but a constable late Tuesday told them the fire gutted their trailer park. he showed them photos he’d taken with his cellphone for proof.
The two evacuees could see nothing left but a single trailer that looked like one of theirs. they don’t know if it’s even livable. neither had fire insurance.
“I don’t know if we could live together, though,” said Morrison, 67, a retired machinist. “We both have dogs that fight as soon as they get near each other.”
The two neighbors had moved there after fleeing a wildfire at a different trailer park in June. “And now here it got us,” said Turner, 66, a retired heavy equipment operator.
Both were numbed by the news and unclear what to do next. “Denial comes to mind,” said Morrison. “Just can’t get it in there yet and process it. “They told us it could be days before we can get back in there and look.”
The leading edge of the fire is near Greenbriar Drive in the Walnut Bend area in Waller County, where firefighters have been able to contain the flames early Tuesday. but crews continue to try to gain the upper hand on the flames in nearby areas.
When asked if the fire was under control, Grimes County Sheriff Donald Sowell said: “Absolutely not under control. I’m looking at smoke from a mile away from where I am.”
Sowell said a shift in wind has rekindled the fire. 
Officials have issued evacuation orders for the following subdivisions: River Park Ranch, Wisteria Farms, Ranch Crest, Magnolia West, Deer Haven, Woodland Lakes, Week End Retreats, Shady Brook Acres, Ranch Crest, River Park Ranch and Clear Creek Forest lots 10-12.
At 3 p.m., fire was threatening the Montgomery County communities of High Chapperal, Toby’s Village and Magnolia East and residents there were being evacuated.
The fire has forced officials to close FM 1488 at FM 1774 west of the Waller County/Montgomery County line as well FM 1774 west of FM 1486 in to Grimes County.
The Montgomery County Emergency Operations Center says approximately 4,000 homes were evacuated in Montgomery County, 150 acres have burned and two homes were destroyed. 
Many areas south of FM 1774 and FM 1488 in the county are being allowed back to their homes. This area includes Alford Estates, Woodland Land Lakes, Week End Retreats, Magnolia West, Ranch Crest, Wisteria Farms, River Park Ranch, Deer Haven, River Park Ranch and others.
No deaths or serious injuries have been reported locally. however, four firemen have been treated at a hospital for heat exhaustion and another had a minor ankle injury.
Officials said the fire has destroyed two homes, one on Ruel Road and another on Pecos Ranch rd. at least 12 out buildings in the Ranch Crest and River Ranch Park subdivisions also were destroyed.
Wildfires are raging east of Austin as well.
The Bastrop County Complex blaze had charred at least 30,000 acres and appears to have destroyed at least 600 homes, according to the Texas Forest Service. The the fast-moving fire has jumped the Colorado River twice and forced the evacuation of The Circle D, K.C. Estates, Pine Forest, Colovista and Tahitian Village subdivisions.
At least two-thirds of the 6,000-acre Bastrop State Park have burned. The park is home to endangered Houston toads and several historic rock and stone buildings built in the 1930s and 1940s that officials are trying to protect, said Mike Cox of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.
From the park’s front gate, Cox told the associated Press: “All I see is a wall of smoke.”
Officials said the Pedernales Bend blaze is burning 4 miles southeast of Spicewood. The fire has blackened 7,000 acres and burned at least 67 homes. The blaze is 40 percent contained.
The 150-acre fire has forced the evacuation of 150 homes in Steiner Ranch, where Gov. Rick Perry was inspecting damage on Tuesday. The fire, which started just north of the area, has burned 150 acres and destroyed 25 homes.
Texas firefighters have battled 181 fires that have burned 118,413 acres, and more than 700 homes have been destroyed in the last 48 hours.
Parched conditions and highs winds fanned the flames during the last few days. Winds may decrease slightly, but dry air that has settled above the area and low humidity may hamper firefighters.
Cindy Horswell and the associated Press contributed to this report.
Wildfire burns near Magnolia






Incoming search terms:wildfires close to magnolia (3)trailer park on FM 1488 burns (1)WILDFIRE MAGNOLIA RV PARK (1)wildfires in magnolia t (1)

Technorati Tags: bastrop county sheriff, Blaze, County Emergency Management, Doma, Firefighters, Flare, Forest Service Official, forest service officials, Hot Spots, Independent School District, Magnolia, Mandatory Evacuations, Montgomery County Emergency Management, Montgomery County Residents, Oaks Boulevard, Pickering, Sandy Hill, shady lane, Shady Oaks, Texas Forest Service, Wildfires



bastrop county sheriff, Blaze, County Emergency Management, Doma, Firefighters, Flare, Forest Service Official, forest service officials, Hot Spots, Independent School District, Magnolia, Mandatory Evacuations, Montgomery County Emergency Management, Montgomery County Residents, Oaks Boulevard, Pickering, Sandy Hill, shady lane, Shady Oaks, Texas Forest Service, Wildfires 




 

Share this post!

Twitter
Digg
Facebook
Delicious
StumbleUpon
Google Bookmarks
LinkedIn
Yahoo Bookmarks
Technorati Favorites



 Print article  
              This entry was posted by editor on September 7, 2011 at 5:30 pm, and is filed under content. Follow any responses to this post through RSS 2.0. You can leave a response or trackback from your own site.            







Related Posts Comments (0) 






No comments yet.






















 













No trackbacks yet.






 Conn. marks anniversary of 9/11 attacks
about 19 hours ago - No comments
WESTPORT, Conn.—Residents across Connecticut are marking the anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attacks with prayers and visits to memorial sites honoring the 152 victims with ties to the state. Visitors to the state’s Sept. 11 memorial at Sherwood Island State Park in Westport reflected Sunday on the attacks and the changes in their lives and





‘Rescue Me’: a Crass, Brutal and Accurate Record of 9/11
about 3 days ago - No comments
"Rescue Me" has explored 9/11 with sorrow, a celebration of everyday courage, and lots of penis jokes — and gotten it almost exactly right. The show ends Wednesday, just days before the 10th anniversary of the tragedy that gave it a reason to exist. its central question was why some people died and others lived,





Chili competitors hit the gridiron Saturday
about 5 days ago - No comments
They call it “the world’s largest chili pot.” And until anyone proves otherwise, the members of the Abilene Professional fire Fighters Association will keep calling it that. “We’ve dubbed it that name, and no one’s ever called to tell us they had a bigger one,” said Lt. Kevin Johnson, paramedic and chili chief. The 500-gallon





New Jersey Herald
about 2 weeks ago - No comments
SURF CITY (AP) — the New Jersey shore emptied out with relative ease Friday as forecasters continued to warn that Hurricane Irene, expected to zip closely along the coast on Sunday, will almost certainly bring serious floods across the state.the mass exodus meant some frustrating road tie-ups, but officials said they were not seeing huge





 Tourists on NC's Outer Banks leaving before Irene
about 2 weeks ago - No comments
Outer Banks prepares for Irene, 'we'll probably end up leaving' WNCT Home improvement stores see more customers as the Outer Banks prepares to receive what's expected to be the brunt of the storm. (more) If it's going to Home improvement stores see more customers as the Outer Banks prepares to receive what's expected to be





Kate Winslet escapes fire in Sir Richard Branson home
about 2 weeks ago - No comments
23-Aug-11, 12:38 AM | Reuters Kate Winslet appears at the premier of the movie “Mildred Pierce” in March 2011. REUTERS  LONDON – British Oscar-winning actress Kate Winslet was among the guests who escaped unhurt from a fire which swept through Richard Branson’s Caribbean holiday retreat overnight, the billionaire said on Monday.Branson said the blaze was















 

 

 

 




 

Recent CommentsRandom Search Termsfuel cap switch honda generator on or off positionjustin chon girlfriendoslo norwayhurt ryan shecklerburger king fruit smoothiepic of a person with syphilisjingle for campaign on breastfeeding in nutrition monthboys underwear fetishjasmine and aladdinjessica simpson bobs 















   Amazon.com Widgets
 










Mystique theme by digitalnature | Powered by WordPress  RSS Feeds XHTML 1.1 Top




















