Moe Lane » 2011 » May








Home
About
Liber Licentiae Moeticae
GURPS 4E Thumbnail Alternate Earths.
Webcomics I admit reading.
Filthy Lucre.  Filthy. Lucre.













Moe Lane
I am an evil giraffe. So "don't call my bluff."

















         May
31
         2011         


1












‘Nearer my God to Thee.’


What?  Oh, no reason.

 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics,Politics | Tags: a night to remember, nearer my god to thee, titanic 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


1












House votes against raising debt ceiling, 318-97.

Which is a surprise, given that I didn’t think that there were 318 Republicans in the House… no, wait, there aren’t.  82 Democrats voted against raising the debt limit without accompanying spending cuts; which is highly entertaining, given that 114 House Democrats signed Rep. Peter Welch’s letter requesting… precisely this vote.  Do compare the signatories to said letter with the no votes on HR 1954: you will notice an entertaining amount of overlap, there.
The hysterical bit?  The Democrats are complaining that they didn’t get to add amendments to the bill, which is fairly straightforward: (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: congress, debt ceiling, peter welch 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


1












Why the cheese is under the burger in a Big Mac.

To answer Serious Eats question about that: based on what I remember from the time I worked for the Scotsman, it is indeed an artifact of the burger construction process.  Remember, you’re doing six Big Macs at a time; the cheese slice is put on the bottom piece of bread so that you know which ones are the bottom ones even after you’ve dumped Special Sauce, onions, and pickles on the whole thing.  That makes it easier for the person actually assembling the burgers to box them quickly.
Pretty straightforward, really.
Moe Lane
Via… somebody.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: big mac, burgers 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


5












Joanne Kloppenburg concedes to David Prosser in WI Supreme Court race.

IT’S ABOUT FLIPPING TIME, KLOPPEN… (deep breath)
…that is to say, Wisconsin Assistant Attorney General Joanne Kloppenburg has conceded the election results for her Supreme Court bid against incumbent David Prosser.  My congratulations to Justice Prosser; you had an unexpectedly difficult race, and you were able to succeed nonetheless.  Well done, sir.
Also, a word to the Greater Wisconsin Committee?  You know, the group that created that scurrilous ad that was so awful that it caused a backlash in the Prosser/Kloppenburg race.  Anyway, just a reminder: if you guys weren’t a bunch of hate-filled partisan hacks who would cheerfully attack an abuse survivor in order to keep your Big Labor/Democrat masters happy, you might have won that election.  But you didn’t, which means that you more of less smeared excrement on your collective souls for… nothing.  Nothing at all.
Have a nice day!
Moe Lane (crosspost)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: david prosser, greater wisconsin committee, joanne kloppenburg, wisconsin 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


2












I need to establish something…

…about my opinion that games turned into movies usually suck.  The below is, I think, the high-water point of the genre:

Not the movie.  That one scene.  And they had to bring in Raul Julia – a great, versatile actor who was taken from us far, far, too soon – to get that.
Moe Lane
PS: Yes, I’m cheating by referencing a video game movie, rather than what is apparently not a board game movie after all.  You may have guessed from that that I am not taking this position of mine all that seriously.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: raul julia, street fighter 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


--












#rsrh Journalist complaint about lack of access, #44436.

It’s always almost unbearably cute when a journalist suddenly realizes that this administration could care less about media transparency, or in fact anything that the media says that’s more substantial than “Barack Obama, you’re so dreamy!”  Case in point: this article by Salena Zeto, where the author complains mightily that the Democrats are routinely locking out local reporters* from fundraisers attended by Vice President Joe Biden (including one, not incidentally, in Zeto’s home journalistic turf).  Also, John Adams’ Sedition Act makes an appearance, which is generally considered to be bringing out the heavy (if usually inaccurate) rhetorical guns in articles like this one; I must admit, there’s something fun about watching the Other Side get scattershot-targeted like this**…
But I digress. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: joe biden, transparency 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


2












Tim Pawlenty calls Barack Obama a doofus.

It’s amusing how casually this was tossed out.  Tim Pawlenty, in an ABC interview – and in the process of restraining himself from rolling his eyes at Christine Amanpour’s bipartisan* fetish:
I think that any doofus can go to Washington, DC and maintain the status quo or incrementally change things…
[snip]
‘Doofus’ would mean someone who was relatively low-performing.
It’s also amusing that there’s a thoroughly cross-spectrum consensus out there that Pawlenty was specifically calling President Obama a  doofus, there.  Then again, the average Lefty blogger would – public  protestations to the contrary – privately admit (after three or  four drinks*, and a quick check for uncontrolled recording equipment)  that to call the President ‘relatively low-performing’ would be an  example of ‘Minnesota Nice‘…
Full video after the fold.  Including a definite smack at the President over school choice.
Moe Lane (crosspost) (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: barack obama, doofus, tim pawlenty, truth is a defense for libel 
Share on Facebook














         May
31
         2011         


1












Inside blogpoll post, 5/31/2011 edition.

OK, I’ll be honest: the major reason why I’m posting these buckets of cold water regarding the relative popularity of the Daily Caller to ThinkProgress (short version: TP gets about half of the traffic of DC, and acts like it gets twice)  is because I have the tabs still up and content is content.  You may be forgiven for thinking this irrelevant, in other words.  Lord knows that ThinkProgress largely is*.
Inside-blogpoll screenshots after the fold: (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: daily caller, inside blogball, thinkprogress 
Share on Facebook














         May
30
         2011         


1












Eric Cantor on deficit: progress, and no tax hikes.

Allow me to summarize  for my readers this Hill article (“Cantor to Democrats: See, cutting spending’s not that hard”) on some hopeful (repeat: hopeful) signs of deficit reduction on the horizon:
Eric Cantor: …See, cutting spending’s not that hard*.  And there’s not going to be any tax hikes.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz:  …OK, now that you’ve getting spending cuts, we want our Holy Grail, too.  Raise taxes!
To which let me add:
Moe Lane: Not a chance on this world, or any other.
 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, deficit, eric cantor 
Share on Facebook














         May
30
         2011         


6












Real Steel, on the other hand? Sign of the End Times.

Yes.

They optioned Rock ‘Em Sock ‘Em ROBOTS.
Fear for the Republic.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: real steel, rock 'em sock 'em robots 
Share on Facebook














         May
30
         2011         


5












Saw Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides.

Verdict: more than decent flick and lots of fun, as long as you aren’t expecting The Tempest… or, for that matter, Tim Powers’ own On Stranger Tides, which is kind-of, sort-of, not-really, actually-Tim-himself-is-fine-with-the-liberties-taken-because-he’s-getting-some-of-that-money-and-the-most-poetic-phrase-in-English-is-’Pay-to-the-order-of’ the basis for the movie.  The movie shows a certain willingness to admit that, yeah, there was an actual historical time period that this series has been largely abusing, and it had more of the conventional pirate movie tropes than some of the earlier flicks did.
Also, they had proper Spaniards.
I’d say, all in all: catch it in matinee, and go have a beer or two afterward.  Or maybe one beforehand; either way, the afternoon will go pleasantly enough.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: on stranger tides, pirates of the caribbean 
Share on Facebook














         May
30
         2011         


2












Joerg Sprave is WASTED in this timeline.

He deserves to live in an alternate timeline where Steam and Clockwork Automatons are the bases on SCIENCE! is constructed:

…because there he would be Herr Doktor Joerg von Sprave, and his mastery of slingshot technology would make him the scourge of evil-doers everywhere.
Via Gizmodo, who is as much in delighted awe of the man as I am.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: circular saws, joerg sprave, slingshots 
Share on Facebook












Older Posts »


























 ARE YOU LOOKING AT COLLEGE TEXTBOOK PRICES, AND HAVING A CORONARY?  CLICK HERE.




Contact me.






Amount




--

The link above goes to the account paying site fees.






Blogroll

A Chequer-Board of Nights and Days (Updated)
A Conservative Lesbian
Age of Sail
Baseball Crank
Blog of Much Holding
Blueshelled
Confessions of a Political Junkie
David Thompson
Fausta’s Blog
Foundation
Hawk’s Plateau
Hickpolitics
Jeff Emanuel
Kevin Holtsberry
Liber Ex Machina
Lileks
Little Miss Attila
Markets & Policy
NTCNews
Piece of Work in Progress
Publius Forum
Rathergate (In Memoriam)


Contributors

Countup from Dystopia
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Humor

Cracked.com
Lowering the Bar
The Manolo
TV Tropes
Websnark
Weekly World News


Politics

Ace of Spades
ActiCons
Barack Obama’s Teleprompter’s Blog
Big Hollywood
Camille Paglia
Conservative Grapevine
Deceiver.com
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
IMAO
Instapundit
Jim Treacher
Jules Crittenden
Legal Insurrection
Mickey Kaus
Protein Wisdom
Reason Hit & Run
Red Dog Report
RedState
Right Wing News
The Daily Beast
The Gormogons
The New Ledger
The Other McCain
The Skepticians
What’s Wrong with the World


Reciprocal

American Elephants
Apropos of Nothing
BigGator5
HotMES
Point of a gun
Pragmatic American
The Skepticrats
The Sundries Shack
Track a ‘Crat


The Glorious Moeticae Family Empire

Liber Licentiae Moeticae
Mi Contra Fa (My wife’s site)
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Recent Comments Moe_Lane: You seem to be under the impression that Krugman’s head being filled with cheese would downgrade his...
Kresh: I suppose there’s easier ways of saying “I warned you about the aliens because they’re here...
jetty: Too bad that the Dems don’t control both the House and Senate – they could just deem it passed,...
Demosthenes: We have to pass the bill so we can find out who wrote it.
Catseye: Everyone is asleep, I don’t want to wake them up, but that hurt. It still does, it always will. Ah the...
Moe_Lane: Mike: Apparently Obama does.
Mike: So, you don’t believe in passing a bill without either reading it or have the paper necessary to sign it?
Catseye: Krugman. The Capering, Gibbering, Fool for the Left has managed to Finally outdo himself. That is all...
 Twittermoelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY September 12, 2011moelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY […]moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz September 12, 2011moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz […]moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. September 12, 2011moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. […] Technorati Profile








The background is from Maxfield Parrish's Ecstasy, and is (to the best to my knowledge) in the public domain.
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Tag Cloudbarack obama
book of the week
California
congress
cpac
damned lies
dccc
democratic party
democrats
dnc
doom
elections
Florida
harry reid
health care
illinois
illinois combine
israel
joe biden
lies
massachusetts
missouri
movie of the week
nancy pelosi
new jersey
new york
nrcc
obama
obamacare
ohio
pennsylvania
qotd
rasmussen
sarah palin
senate
statistics
stimulus
tea parties
tea party
texas
that woman
unemployment
virginia
webcomics
wisconsin












Site by Neil Stevens
 | Theme by TheBuckmaker.com






