Moe Lane » 2011 » April








Home
About
Liber Licentiae Moeticae
GURPS 4E Thumbnail Alternate Earths.
Webcomics I admit reading.
Filthy Lucre.  Filthy. Lucre.













Moe Lane
I am an evil giraffe. So "don't call my bluff."

















         Apr
30
         2011         


5












“Witch of the Westmoreland.”


 
Not sure who the artist is, sorry.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: Witch of the Westmoreland 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
30
         2011         


3












Politico: Conservatives are pro-cancer!

Either that, or Politico hires some pretty sloppy writers.  Personally, I’m voting for the latter.
The background: Politico decided to write an article that attempts to answer the eternal question, For just how long will George Soros keep throwing money down the rathole which is the Activist Left*? It’s an interesting question in its own right – the article suggests that Soros is getting pretty darn tired of piling up his money in the policy equivalent of an empty field, then setting the pile on fire – but there was one throwaway line in the piece that made me roll my eyes at what fools these mortals be:
And — like Koch brothers’ philanthropy — the recipients of Soros’s largesse do not all fit into neat liberal-conservative constructs.
Soros’s Open Society Foundations, for instance, have contributed  $431,000 since 1996 to the Cato Institute to fund its drug reform, civil  liberties and anti-corruption programs. And the Kochs have contributed tens of millions to the arts and cancer research.
OK.  Stop right there. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: george soros, koch brothers, politico 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
30
         2011         


3












#rsrh Someone remind me in July…

…to look at the quarterly financial reports for Obama for America.  Right now the numbers are meaningless; it’s completely unreasonable to expect that the President could raise the same amount of money in the first quarter of 2007 (almost $26 million) that he did in a portion of the first quarter of 2011 ($2.3 million).  However, it is reasonable to compare 2nd quarter 2007 ($33 million) to 2nd quarter 2011; you see, when the Obama campaign brags about the $750 million that they raised last go-round (and their plans to surpass that with $1 billion this go-round) they’re including the roughly $350 million that they raised (and spent) on the primary. If the Obama campaign is truly serious about bettering that total, that means that they have to better their total now, which is incidentally a period where the President is not actually competing against any sort of meaningful primary opponent.  If they don’t, they won’t hit $750 million.  They’ll be lucky to even hit $500 million, in fact.
Unless the Obama campaign thinks that they can raise roughly two and a half times as much in the general election in 2012 as they did in the general election in 2008…]
Moe Lane
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: 2012 election, barack obama 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
30
         2011         


--












#rsrh Trump vs. Obama at #nerdprom !

…Nah, still not worth watching the entire White House Correspondents’ Dinner, but Allahpundit has an open thread up on it over at Hot Air.  If you must have the live feed, it’s here.
I figure that if there’s any sparks, fireworks, or kanly duels tonight it’ll end up on YouTube anyway.
Moe Lane
[UPDATE]: OK, one short observation about the live feed (I had to make sure that it worked): dag, but that is one whitebread crow… Hey!  I know that guy!
(pause)
Dammit, this is how they suck you in.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: nerdprom 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
30
         2011         


12












The trouble with Kindles.

Or any other e-book reader, really.  It’s not the fault of the Kindle itself, but rather how some publishers are handling it.
Goes like this: I read recently an article about James M Cain that made me say, Hmm.  I’ve never actually read him, and this guy thinks that a couple of his books are downright amazing.  True, it’s the Atlantic saying that, but Hollywood made movies out of said books that are supposed to be really good, back when Hollywood wasn’t filtering everything for ideological bias.
So I decided to go look up The Postman Always Rings Twice on Kindle… and it’s ten bucks.  Well.  That’s… pretty expensive for the format, really.  What are my alternatives?  Well, see for yourselves:

So.  Ten bucks is too much for the text of a commonly-available-in-libraries book, even if it is instant access.  And almost six bucks ($1.63 for the cheapest paperback option, plus $3.99 for shipping) is too much for a takes-up-physical-space version of the same book sent to me three or four days from now, considering that I’m a little sensitized to costs after seeing the too-high Kindle price.  If the Kindle book had been five bucks, or even six, I’d have bought it already and be reading it right now instead of writing this post.  Instead, I’ve decided that it’s easier just to wait until the next time I’m at the library.
(more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: baen books, kindle, the postman always rings twice 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
30
         2011         


1












QotD, But the Grey Lady Isn’t Bitter edition.

Nope.  Writing this sentence did not cause nigh-physical pain for its author.
A group including former White House officials, union leaders and one of Hollywood’s biggest producers have joined forces to start an outside effort to help President Obama and Congressional Democrats in 2012 by using the very sort of anonymous, unlimited donations from moneyed interests that the president has so deplored.
Nope.  Not at all, nosireebob.  That thin screaming that you’re hearing?  Nope, that’s not the death of hope and innocence in the battered soul of a newspaper reporter who has realized that he has been implicitly working for a political faction who has been secretly laughing at him for his stupid naivete.  Not all: it’s actually just gas.
It’s just gas, blast your eyes.
Via RCP.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: 2012 elections, Khan.  I'm laughing at the superior intellect. 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
30
         2011         


--












Flying a kite is harder than it looks.

Mind you, worth it to hear the kid happily yell “KITE! KITE! KITE!” as you’re trying to get the blessed thing up in the air high enough so it’ll stay up there (possibly I shouldn’t have bought an eight buck POS, huh?).
That’s it.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: kites 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
29
         2011         


2












“It’s All About The Pentiums.”


It’s All About The Pentiums, Weird Al Yankovic
Word.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: it's all about the pentiums, weird al yankovic 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
29
         2011         


3












#rsrh White House Uppity Reporter Suppression Update.

Background here: short version, the White House allegedly told the San Francisco Chronicle that one of their pool reporters was persona non grata after she committed the heinous crime of recording and reproducing a bunch of activists embarrassing themselves and the President via some bad choral singing.  This offended the Chronicle… particularly when the White House (again allegedly) then started threatening the paper if they talked about this.
Which is, by the way, a stupid threat to make to a newspaper.
Anyway, now the Chronicle reports that the White House is in full “Who, us?  Threat?  Somebody made a threat to the paper?  That doesn’t sound like something that we’d do” mode on the threat, which suggests that a grown-up finally noticed what the kids were doing in the back seat.  Or that the Executive branch staff is about to implode from sheer incompetence.  Seven-five odds and pick ‘em.
Moe Lane
PS: Remember: these are the same people who we’re trusting with our nuclear arsenal.  Have a nice day!
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: carla marinucci, san francisco chronicle, thin-skinned 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
29
         2011         


10












#rsrh Jay Cost: Be afraid, Democrats.

Be… pretty afraid.  I’m going to summarize/translates Jay’s four reasons why the Democrats should be worried about the 2012 Republican candidate:

We’ve got some serious fellas running.  Romney and Pawlenty; probably Daniels, at this point; and Jay considers Huntsman serious, though I don’t know if I do.  Yes, hold that objection for after the fold.
We’re not going to see a proxy class warfare battle in ’12 like we did in Obama/Clinton in ’08. The aforementioned candidates are all pretty much variations on a theme: white governors with crossover appeal who are moderately conservative.
Donald Trump isn’t going to be the nominee, and neither will any other fringe candidate. Behold the awesome moderating power of using primaries as opposed to caucuses!  Using ’08 again: it’s no coincidence that Obama won more caucuses, while Clinton won more primaries.
There  will be no enthusiasm gap.  More on this after the fold.

 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: gop, jay cost 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
29
         2011         


--












And now, a Spitfire.

This is oldish, but funny (and has a language warning, for reasons that should soon be obvious):

Personally, I’m strangely envious.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: spitfire 
Share on Facebook














         Apr
29
         2011         


7












Paul Ryan protesters: grassroots, or groupies?

Alternate title: “HAHAHA you dumb[expletive deleted].”
USA Today has the funniest thing I’m going to read today, I think:
At the last of four events on Rep. Paul Ryan’s “listening tour” of his  district Thursday, he called on a man in the front row of a high school  auditorium, then instantly recognized him.
“You changed clothes!” Ryan told Steve Jozefczyk.  The 54-year old salesman from Franklin, Wis., had asked Ryan several  critical questions from the front row of an event six hours earlier in  Waterford, when he wore a shirt and tie. In Greenfield, it was a black  “Faux News” parody T-shirt.
Josefczyk admitted trying to trick Ryan into calling on him again. But Ryan listened anyway.
(Bolding mine)  Wow.  Paul Ryan has Democratic groupies.  Ones that follow him around from town hall to town hall.  That’s so cool. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: budget, groupies, moveon, paul ryan 
Share on Facebook












Older Posts »


























 ARE YOU LOOKING AT COLLEGE TEXTBOOK PRICES, AND HAVING A CORONARY?  CLICK HERE.




Contact me.






Amount




--

The link above goes to the account paying site fees.






Blogroll

A Chequer-Board of Nights and Days (Updated)
A Conservative Lesbian
Age of Sail
Baseball Crank
Blog of Much Holding
Blueshelled
Confessions of a Political Junkie
David Thompson
Fausta’s Blog
Foundation
Hawk’s Plateau
Hickpolitics
Jeff Emanuel
Kevin Holtsberry
Liber Ex Machina
Lileks
Little Miss Attila
Markets & Policy
NTCNews
Piece of Work in Progress
Publius Forum
Rathergate (In Memoriam)


Contributors

Countup from Dystopia
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Humor

Cracked.com
Lowering the Bar
The Manolo
TV Tropes
Websnark
Weekly World News


Politics

Ace of Spades
ActiCons
Barack Obama’s Teleprompter’s Blog
Big Hollywood
Camille Paglia
Conservative Grapevine
Deceiver.com
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
IMAO
Instapundit
Jim Treacher
Jules Crittenden
Legal Insurrection
Mickey Kaus
Protein Wisdom
Reason Hit & Run
Red Dog Report
RedState
Right Wing News
The Daily Beast
The Gormogons
The New Ledger
The Other McCain
The Skepticians
What’s Wrong with the World


Reciprocal

American Elephants
Apropos of Nothing
BigGator5
HotMES
Point of a gun
Pragmatic American
The Skepticrats
The Sundries Shack
Track a ‘Crat


The Glorious Moeticae Family Empire

Liber Licentiae Moeticae
Mi Contra Fa (My wife’s site)
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Recent Comments Moe_Lane: You seem to be under the impression that Krugman’s head being filled with cheese would downgrade his...
Kresh: I suppose there’s easier ways of saying “I warned you about the aliens because they’re here...
jetty: Too bad that the Dems don’t control both the House and Senate – they could just deem it passed,...
Demosthenes: We have to pass the bill so we can find out who wrote it.
Catseye: Everyone is asleep, I don’t want to wake them up, but that hurt. It still does, it always will. Ah the...
Moe_Lane: Mike: Apparently Obama does.
Mike: So, you don’t believe in passing a bill without either reading it or have the paper necessary to sign it?
Catseye: Krugman. The Capering, Gibbering, Fool for the Left has managed to Finally outdo himself. That is all...
 Twittermoelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY September 12, 2011moelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY […]moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz September 12, 2011moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz […]moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. September 12, 2011moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. […] Technorati Profile








The background is from Maxfield Parrish's Ecstasy, and is (to the best to my knowledge) in the public domain.
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Tag Cloudbarack obama
book of the week
California
congress
cpac
damned lies
dccc
democratic party
democrats
dnc
doom
elections
Florida
harry reid
health care
illinois
illinois combine
israel
joe biden
lies
massachusetts
missouri
movie of the week
nancy pelosi
new jersey
new york
nrcc
obama
obamacare
ohio
pennsylvania
qotd
rasmussen
sarah palin
senate
statistics
stimulus
tea parties
tea party
texas
that woman
unemployment
virginia
webcomics
wisconsin












Site by Neil Stevens
 | Theme by TheBuckmaker.com






