Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire  | ajc.com










ajc


Atlanta Weather

Partly cloudy
66° F
Pollen 41
Air quality 103
 | Traffic


Customer Care
Print/Digital Subscriptions









 ajc.com
 Archives
 Services
 Web




Home
News



Metro / Georgia
Atlanta / South Fulton
Cherokee
Clayton
Cobb
DeKalb 
Fayette
Forsyth
Gwinnett
Henry
North Fulton
Georgia Politics
Traffic
Weather


Nation & World
News Q&A
Photos – News
Videos – Local News 
Videos – Nation/World



Special Reports

Atlanta Forward
CRCT Coverage

Blogs

Get Schooled
Political Insider
More blogs »


Opinion

Opinion page
Letters to the Editor
Jay Bookman
Mike Luckovich
Kyle Wingfield
Atlanta Forward blog





Sports



Braves
College Recruiting
Dream
Falcons 
Georgia State 
Georgia Tech 
Golf 
Hawks 
High School 
AJC Peachtree Road Race 
UGA 
Photos – Sports  
Videos – Local Sports
Videos – National Sports



Blogs

College Recruiting
Mark Bradley
Jeff Schultz
More blogs »

Topics

SEC Sports
More topics »

Features

Scoreboard
Sports Vent
More features »




Entertainment



Best of Big A
Celebrities & TV
Events
Food & Restaurants
Holiday Guide
Movies
Music
Fashion & Style
Games & Comics
Photos – Entertainment
Videos – Entertainment



Blogs

Food and More
The Buzz
Radio & TV Talk
More blogs »

Topics

Concert Photos
Real Housewives of Atlanta
Tyler Perry
More topics »

Features

Find Five Challenge
Puzzles & Games
TV listings




Travel



Atlanta Airport
Beaches
Deals
Southeast Travel
Travel Guide
U.S. & International
Photos – Travel 
Videos – Travel



Topics

Budget Ideas
Day Trips
Weekend Getaways
More topics »

Features

Vacation rentals




Business



Coke 
Delta Air Lines 
Georgia Top Stocks
Atlanta Top Workplaces
Photos – Business
Videos – Business



Features

Find cheap gas
Georgia executive pay
More features »




Lifestyle



Announcements
Health
Holiday Guide
Gardening
Home Decor
My Style
Recipes
Photos – Lifestyle 
Videos – Lifestyle 



Blogs

Atlanta Bargain Hunter
Misadventures in Atlanta
Momania
More blogs »

Topics

Private Quarters Photos
Weight Loss and Fitness
More topics »

Features

Living Vent
Volunteer Locally
More features »




Obituaries



Funeral Directors
Obituary Archives
Obituary Help
Atlanta Obituary News




Homes
Jobs
Cars
Classifieds














National / World News


8:16 p.m. Wednesday, September 7, 2011



Text size:

Decrease


Increase



Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire










Print


E-mail






By  APRIL CASTRO 


The Associated Press

BASTROP, Texas  — Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.






Willie Clements surveys his fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. Clements lost his home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)









Laura Clements, left, and brother Ben, survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.  (AP Photo/Eric Gay)









Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)









Smoke hangs as the sun rises over Bastrop, Texas, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Low winds and better weather are giving firefighters opportunity to get a handle of the wildfires that have devastated central Texas.   (AP Photo/LM Otero)






10 years since 9/11 attacks



Security on rise 10 years later


Americans impacted still today


Timeline: 
10 years later


Could attacks happen again?


New York won't forget


Rebuilding the World Trade Center


'America is united,' or is it?


Luckovich:
Remembering 9/11


Anniversary events in Atlanta


TV: 
9/11-related programming


Photos: 
Before & After
|
Memorial
|
Newspapers
|
AJC staff


Tribute for the victims






More Nation & World stories »




9/11 memorial plaza in NYC to open to public


Traffic nightmare over closed Ohio River bridge


IBM putting Watson to work in health insurance


Final whale stranded off FL Keys goes to SeaWorld




Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.
The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere.
One of the two people killed in the Bastrop area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.
Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.
Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place.
"It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.
Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday.
"I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."
Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.
"The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."
Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some if his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring.
"Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry.
"It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."
___
Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.
___
September 07, 2011 08:16 PM EDT 
Copyright 2011, The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.











Inside AJC.COMCan you see the change?What's altered in the two photos? See how you score when you play the Find 5 Challenge!	Private QuartersAn Atlanta family took the plunge and renovated the kitchen of their Virginia-Highland bungalow. Luckovich on 9/11Editorial cartoonist Mike Luckovich gives his take on local news, politics, sports and celebrities.	Foie gras fightJon Watson weighs in on the controversial delicacy that is set to be banned in California soon.Top college coachesAP has released a list of the best coaches in college football today. Do you agree with the rankings?The week's hottest deal$10 for $20 at Café Istanbul. Get today's deal at DealSwarm.com, in partnership with the AJC.


























Today's news
Tools and widgets
Reprints, Permissions
Archives




Today's top videos


 

Watch more video

Local sports | Local video from AJC, Channel 2



Most viewed stories
Top photo galleries






South Fulton couple tied up, beaten and burned in home invasion


Two wounded in south DeKalb shooting


Falcons suffer worst regular-season defeat with Ryan at the helm


Man shot, killed in Marietta bar


Foreclosures dropped month-to-month and from last year



More popular stories »
Put this on your site








Georgia Tech vs. MTSU



Harrison vs. Milton



Marietta vs. McEachern



Holy Innocents' vs. GAC




More photo galleries »
Put this on your site


loading...
Free: Get DealSwarm alerts by email | Today's deal




 Services » Find the right people for the job


 








From our news partners



Earhart goggles, photos pull in more than $31,000


Texas fire 'missing' list shrinks; estimated 1,554 homes destroyed


Price of beauty: Premium human hair latest thieves' target


Shoppers caught off guard when deer dart into store


School administrator paid $188k for 1 day's work


Ohio couple wed on plane, then skydive from it


Parents: Casey may have had seizure as Caylee "drowned"


Man asked permission to dump body in neighbor's trash can


Family: 400-year-old painting stolen by Nazis


T.I. disputes Feds' reasons for returning him to prison









Tell us what you think about the site

Send us your suggestions about this page.
Send a feedback technical issue









Subscribe »



Customer Care »
Vacation stops, manage subscriptions and more

AJC Services

Staff contacts
Reprints and permission
Contests
Submit event listings
Send us news tips
Careers at AJC
Careers at Cox
AJC Store
AJC Conversation



Sections

News
Sports
Entertainment
Travel
Business
Lifestyle
Obituaries

Other Editions

Sign up for newsletters
Digital Products
AJC for iPad
Sign up for ajcMobile
RSS and Widgets
Today's news | A1 image
Archives



Guides

Best of Atlanta
School Guide
Neighborhood Guide
AJC in Education
Atlanta Home Sales
Atlanta Topics
Travel Guide
Atlanta Holiday Guide
Atlanta Crime & Safety
Find Atlanta Jobs



Advertising

About our ads
Advertise with us
E-Sheets

AJC Sites

ajc.com
AccessAtlanta
Atlanta Jobs
Atlanta Homes
Atlanta Apartments
Atlanta Cars
Atlanta Classifieds
Mundo Hispánico
BuenRato
Cars on AutoTrader.com




 Visitor Agreement | Privacy Statement© 2011 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution






















 






