All2u



All2u





 



9/11 Memorial: Obama VS Bush: Two Visions of the War on Terror? – International Business TimesAndy Whitfield dead: Spartacus star loses his battle with cancer at age 39 – Daily MailBisphosphonate Osteoporosis Drugs: FDA Questions Long-term Effects – International Business TimesCDC enters probe of listeria outbreak in Nebraska, Colorado – The State Column10 years after 9/11, a real home to honor victims – The Associated PressNASA Releases Raw Footage of 9/11 Attacks from Space [VIDEO] – International Business TimesWeight loss could lead to $15 billion savings in Medicare – The State ColumnMore ground turkey is recalled over salmonella – Los Angeles TimesAndy Whitfield, Star of TV’s Spartacus, Dies of Cancer at 39 – People Magazine‘Spartacus’ Star Andy Whitfield Dead at 39 – TMZ.com 



 
 

9/11 Memorial: Obama VS Bush: Two Visions of the War on Terror? – International Business Times



 






As America observed the tenth anniversary of Sept. 11, 2001, Sunday, President Barack Obama and his predecesssor, George W. Bush, both addressed crowds as ceremonies were held at various locations.


Both men have led the decade-long “war on terror,” with Bush launching the campaign and sending U.S. troops into Iraq and Afghanistan while Obama is the man who almost 10 years after 9/11 authorised the secret assault in Pakistan that led to the death of Osama bin Laden.
The two presidents, however, had very different tones throughout their speeches, which may have reflected their different time in office and different way of handling the aftermath of attacks and the strategy used to answer to it.


Ten years ago, Bush promised to hunt down those responsible, repeating publicly several times that the al-Qaida leader was wanted dead or alive. While his administration was behind the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan, Obama has had to deal with the domestic impacts of the war which include the huge financial cost, the loss of life, the return of wounded veterans and the lack of security still prevalent in Iraq and Afghanistan. Despite all this, Obama will be inscribed as the man who gave Americans a sense of justice by killing bin Laden.
Obama’s speech seemed to focus on the domestic impacts of the war, positioning him as the leader of the people, who having defeated the country’s worst enemy now calls for peace.
“Two million Americans have gone to war since 9/11 … Too many will never come home. Those that do carry dark memories from distant places, and the legacy of fallen friends,” Obama said in a speech to the invited audience at a “Concert for Hope” Sunday evening at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.





“Our strength is not measured in our ability to stay in these places; it comes from our commitment to leave those lands to free people and sovereign states, and our desire to move from a decade of war to a future of peace,” said Obama, presaging the final withdrawal of American troops from both Afghanistan and Iraq.
On Saturday, however, Bush took center stage at the United Flight 93 crash site in Shanksville, Pa., recalling  his vision of the United States as a worldwide defender of values such as liberty and democracy.
“The temptation of isolation is deadly wrong,” Bush said. “A world of dignity and liberty and hope will be safer and better for all. And the surest way to move toward that vision is for the United States of America to lead the cause of freedom.”
His words seemed to imply that his “war on terror” and “promotion of democracy” may have played a part in  inspiring the Arab Spring.
Bush also praised the military. “They have kept us safe, they have made us proud,” he said.
While the U.S. has killed bin Laden along with numerous al-Qaida leaders, reducing its operational capabilities, the new governments in Iraq and Afghanistan are still stymied by insurgencies and rampant corruption. Also, in both countries, the condition and rights of women have been met with very little progress.


Top Stories – Google News


 




Andy Whitfield dead: Spartacus star loses his battle with cancer at age 39 – Daily Mail

By Laura Schreffler Last updated at 9:58 AM on 12th September 2011 Andy Whitfield has died of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Representatives and family members of the Spartacus: Blood and Sand star confirmed the sad news today. The Australian actor’s wife, Vashti, issued a statement saying her husband died on a ‘sunny Sydney morning’ in the ‘arms … Continue reading





Bisphosphonate Osteoporosis Drugs: FDA Questions Long-term Effects – International Business Times

Bisphosphonates, drugs introduced to the market 16 years ago to treat osteoporosis, need labeling to clarify how long patients should take them as data suggests that efficacy decreases while risk increases after some period, panels to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) voted on Friday. The FDA does not always officially adopt the recommendation of … Continue reading





CDC enters probe of listeria outbreak in Nebraska, Colorado – The State Column

State officials in Colorado and Nebraska spent the weekend probing the causes of an outbreak of listeria that has already killed two people in Colorado. State officials in Colorado said the probe into the cause of listeria now involves a number of federal agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and the Food and Drug … Continue reading





10 years after 9/11, a real home to honor victims – The Associated Press

10 years after 9/11, a real home to honor victims By LARRY NEUMEISTER, Associated Press – 25 minutes ago  NEW YORK (AP) — Oak trees and sparkling waterfalls have replaced the shards and smoke and bodies. Ten years after the attacks that changed American life, the World Trade Center site is a memorial, and the … Continue reading





NASA Releases Raw Footage of 9/11 Attacks from Space [VIDEO] – International Business Times

NASA astronaut Frank Culbertson was the only American not on Earth when the 9/11 terrorist attacks happened 10 years ago, He was on board the International Space Station and filmed the shocking incident. Culbertson told NASA he was relaxing with a Tom Clancy novel when he heard reports of the attacks on New York. He … Continue reading





Weight loss could lead to $15 billion savings in Medicare – The State Column

Researchers say Medicare could save billions of dollars over the next decade simply by enrolling chronically obese adults in a sixteen week weight-loss course. In an article in the September issue of Health Affairs, two Emory University public health analysts note the upwards of $ 15 billion in savings over the coming ten years may … Continue reading





More ground turkey is recalled over salmonella – Los Angeles Times

The Minnesota food company that recalled 36 million pounds of ground turkey last month linked to a salmonella outbreak is pulling an additional 185,000 pounds of turkey for the same reason. The voluntary recall, announced Sunday by Cargill Inc., comes in the wake of one of the largest meat recalls in U.S. history: As of … Continue reading





Andy Whitfield, Star of TV’s Spartacus, Dies of Cancer at 39 – People Magazine

Andy Whitfield Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic Andy Whitfield, who starred in TV’s Spartacus: Blood and Sand – only to leave the show to treat a recurrence of non-Hodgkin lymphoma – died Sunday of the disease at age 39. The actor’s wife Vashti said in a statement that the “beautiful young warrior” died on a “sunny Sydney morning” … Continue reading





‘Spartacus’ Star Andy Whitfield Dead at 39 – TMZ.com

Andy Whitfield — who left the show “Spartacus: Blood and Sand” after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin Lymphoma — died today in Sydney, Australia. He was 39. Whitfield’s wife issued a statement, saying her husband died on a “sunny Sydney morning” in the “arms of his loving wife.” Entertainment – Google News






Older posts >>







				© 2011 
					All2u				


Privacy Policy



Powered by Howtoknow.us