 How to help the victims of the Texas wildfires: Whether you're in Austin or not - 2011-Sep-06 - CultureMap Houston
















                Log In
                




                Get Our Alerts
                




                CultureMap Austin
                
















































                Houston Texans absolutely humiliate the Indianapolis Colts with Phillips' power defense 
                 Sep 11, 2011 2:50p.m.









Home


Arts/Entertainment


City Life


Fashion/Style


Food/Drink


Home/Design


Real Estate


Social Scene


Sports


Travel
















































 STANDING STRONG TOGETHER 
How to help the victims of the Texas wildfires: Whether you're in Austin or not 




Tweet



		
		By
		  
		Shelley Seale


09.06.11 | 03:42 pm



	The scenes of the Texas wildfires' epic devastation can leave one feeling overwhelmed and helpless. There is a lot that can be done to assist Central Texas and the hardest hit areas close to Austin though.

	"There are a lot of nonprofits in the area who have sprung to action," says Monica Maldonado Williams of the Austin Community Foundation. "We've set up an emergency fund where people can donate, and 100 percent of their tax-deductible donation will go to area non-profits who are helping with this disaster — many of them small organizations like the Bastrop food bank."

	If you'd like to assist those who have been evacuated or lost their homes in these devastating fires, here are some ways to help. Keep in mind, most organizations need money, so consider making a cash donation:


		Check the home page of Austin Community Foundation to donate to the Central Texas Fire Relief Emergency Fund.

		Drop off donations at KNBT/KGNB radio station in Austin: Clothing, shoes, new pillows, toiletry items, diapers, blankets, etc. No food items will be accepted. For questions or to volunteer, please contact Megan Hancock at 512-304-8171.

		Austin's Sweet Dreams Bakery is collecting clothes, toiletries, and pet food to deliver to those in need in Bastrop. Tip jar donations will also be collected. Call 830-626-2253 with any questions.

		The American Red Cross of Central Texas has set up a page to collect money, food and clothing donations.

		Texas Forest Service has established the VFD Emergency Assistance Fund to help volunteer fire departments. All proceeds (100 percent) will be distributed to volunteer fire departments via grants for firefighting expenses.

Catholic Charities of Central Texas will accept donations for wildfire victims on Tuesday. Donations can be brought to the Diocese of Austin Pastoral Center at 6225 Highway 290 East from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Donations will also be accepted from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Catholic Charities of Central Texas in Austin at 1817 East Sixth Street.

Austin Pets Alive is helping with dozens of Bastrop area animals, and needs donations.

		The Thrift Shop at the Episcopal Church of the Resurrection in Austin is accepting donations for victims. The shop at 2008 Justin Lane will take donations of clothing, housewares and toiletries.

Austin Christian Fellowship is taking donations of bottled water, sports drinks, non-perishable snacks, toiletries, work gloves, heavy duty trash bags, flashlights, batteries and pet food. Donations will be accepted at 6401 River Place Boulevard.

		The Oasis Lake Travis restaurant in the Austin area will be serving as a drop-off point for water, work gloves, toiletries, non-perishable food items, clothing, trash bags, and flashlights with batteries. Location: 6550 Comanche Trail.


	For those who are affected by the Bastrop fires, here are several resources:


		Five shelters are open for Bastrop County residents: Bastrop Middle School, Vandegrift High School, Rouse High School and Smithville Recreation Center. Also Grace Lutheran Church and First Baptist Church in Smithville, and Ascension Catholic Church.

		A Facebook page has been created, called We Are Okay in Bastrop. This is where people are posting information and looking for answers about houses, pets and family members.

YMCA Bastrop offering free child watch for ages 'potty trained' and older. Tuesday to Friday from 10 am to 5 pm at Bastrop Christian Church, 1104 Church St.

		The Austin Humane Society has taken in many animals from the Bastrop shelter and rescued from homes. If you are looking for your pet, please email sstreif@austinhumanesociety.org with a detailed description.

		The American Legion in Bastrop is accepting pets and livestock.

		The U.S. Small Business Administration is offering low interest disaster loans to help people get back on their feet. Loans up to $200,000 are available for homeowners needing to make repairs. Another $40,000 in loans is available to help renters or homeowners replace personal belongings.

		For more information, call the citizen's information hotline at 512-332-8856 or 512-332-8814.


TEXAS IN FLAMES





	Texas in flames: 64 wildfires in two day...
      





	Heartbreaking stories from the Texas wil...
      






	Thousands evacuated as wildfires rage ac...
      








Austin, 
    
    Bastrop, 
    
    evacuation, 
    
    fire, 
    
    wildfires




Follow @ShelleySeale









Tweet







Print





Email





Republish





Share a comment below









Related News

09.11.11
A wildfire drill almost gone wrong: Seeing smoke in suburban San Antonio


09.09.11
On a wildfires mission: Chris Shepherd has food trucks, a commandeered party bus & a foodie army rolling to help


09.09.11
Parker says the city is watering "signature trees," pleads for help from people who love parks


09.09.11
Gawkers a problem at Texas wildfires: "Utter devastation" of forest turned moonscape draws onlookers 


09.08.11
Houston restaurants rally to take food to victims of Montgomery and Waller County fires



Related Guide Listings

Canyon Creek



Related CultureLists

Test Drives: Today's hottest cars


Comments








Photo 1






 


              
              Photo by Russell L. Minton
              
            

              
              Courtesy of KXAN
              
            

	Hundreds of families will be left without a home in the Texas wildfires.




 











09.12.11
06:11 am


After 9/11 tributes, Lela Rose, DVF, Tommy Hilfiger & Donna Karan get down to fashion week business





09.12.11
06:02 am


City of lights enchants as ultimate destination inspiration for Elaine Turner's fall collection





09.12.11
12:11 am


Joke's on the Cowboys: Collapse of Rob Ryan's D proves Jerry Jones made an arrogant mistake on Wade Phillips





09.11.11
08:20 pm


The Junior League of Houston gears up for a year of volunteerism and contributions worth $2 million





09.11.11
07:00 pm


Gift of Gift of 2011: Emerging artists reflect on their recognition












12 | sep at 10:00 am


Jewelry Designer Bounkit at Tootsies


Tootsies



12 | sep at 3:00 pm


Panel Discussion: The Role of the Media in Preventing Another Sept. 11


University of Houston Hilton 



12 | sep at 7:00 pm


iPerform Workshops


Spacetaker



12 | sep at 7:00 pm


Charity Poker Tour, benefiting the Aces & Angels Foundation


The  Houston Club







Seemoreevents


















Imperiled Architecture




Cupcake Heaven









River Oaks Theatre
Alabama Theater
Astrodome
Rice University's Rice Museum
Sears


Sprinkles Cupcakes
Crave Cupcakes
Sugarbaby's Cupcake Boutique
Ooh La La Dessert Boutique
Dessert Gallery-Kirby
Celebrity Cupcakes
Jodycakes




Read full list >


Read full list >









A-List Art Deco




Shops for the Hip H-Town Man









Lawndale Art Center
Houston City Hall
JPMorgan Chase Building
University of Houston — Downtown
Macy's Downtown


Mortar
Reserve Supply Company
Kuhl-Linscomb
Billy Reid
Hamilton Shirts




Read full list >


Read full list >









 Indie Coffee Joints




Quirky Houston attractions









Greenway Coffee Co.
Brasil
Agora
Black Hole Café
Catalina Coffee
Down House
The Coffee Groundz


Beer Can House
National Museum of Funeral History
Orange Show Center for Visionary Art
Anderson Fair
Glenwood Cemetery




Read full list >


Read full list >









Cool hotel pools for chilling




Frosty Sno Cone Stands









Hotel Granduca
Four Seasons Hotel
Hotel ZaZa
The St. Regis Hotel
Hotel Sorella


MAM's House of Ice
Tampico 
Tropical Chill
Sno Beach 




Read full list >


Read full list >









Where the NFL/NBA Players Play




Free Museum Days









Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steakhouse
Vic & Anthony’s
Hotel Icon
Sushi Raku
Yao's Restaurant and Bar at Houston Pavillions


The Menil Collection
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
Contemporary Arts Museum Houston
Houston Museum of Natural Science
Children's Museum of Houston
Holocaust Museum Houston
Blaffer Art Museum




Read full list >


Read full list >









Hotel Bar Great Escapes




Swell Party Venues









The Bar at La Colombe d’Or Hotel
Bar Malatesta
Monarch Lounge
Monnalisa 
QBar
VOICE


The Corinthian
Goode's Armadillo Palace
Hotel ZaZa Houston
House of Blues
Hudson Lounge
La Colombe d'Or
Lucky Strike Lanes




Read full list >


Read full list >









Happy Hour Feasts




Gallery Hopping in The Heights









Alto Pizzeria
Benjy's-Washington
Bistro Bar 
Brennan's of Houston
Café Moustache
Fleming's-River Oaks
Indika


Gallery M Squared
Hiram Butler Gallery
18 Hands Gallery
G Gallery
Redbud Gallery




Read full list >


Read full list >









The Bow Wows of Dog Parks 




 Downtown Watering Holes









Market Square Park
Danny Jackson Family Dog Park
Congressman Bill Archer Dog Park
Millie Bush Dog Park
Discovery Green
Ervan Chew Dog Park


CharBar
The Flying Saucer Draught Emporium
Hearsay
La Carafe
McElroy's and Molly's
notsuoH
State Bar




Read full list >


Read full list >









Places to see an art house movie




Late Night Bites









River Oaks Theatre
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston Brown Auditorium
14 Pews
Alamo Drafthouse West Oaks
Rice Media Center
AMC Studio 30


BRC Gastropub
Spanish Flowers
BB's Cajun Café
Frank's Pizza
House of Pies
Theo's
Smith & Wollensky




Read full list >


Read full list >









Not-To-Be-Missed Ceviche




Test Drives: Today's hottest cars









Hugo's
Latin Bites
Escalante's-Highland Village
Yelapa Playa Mexicana
Samba Grille
Cyclone Anaya's
Ninfa's on Navigation


Volvo S60 T5 strives to be a little naughty, but with nifty features it sure is nice
The Ford Mustang GT convertible is the original pony car, but is it the best?
Formula One technology hits the streets: A sneak peek at McLaren's new supercar
The comeback kid: Chrysler experiences a renaissance with the 200 and 300
Revving up summer in the 2011 Chevy Camaro convertible: Does the top down love stack up?
The Cadillac CTS-V offers a thrill ride for everyday travel
Test Drive: Nissan and eVgo are charged up about the future with the all-electric Leaf




Read full list >


Read full list >




















Your Friends Who Like CultureMap











McClain Gallery
Looking for a Schnabel or the like?




The Tasting Room—River Oaks 
A friendly neighborhood wine bar




Monarch
Where the pretty people eat




Hotel Derek
Fabulous location and chic digs




Rebecca & Drew
It's the fit that counts




Health Museum
Opening the mysteries of our bodies and our health 



























9/2
Go behind the scenes at the Houston Zoo: Play with a giraffe, walk a cheetah, bathe an elephant



8/10
Houston Zoo brings the animals to you: Giraffe webcams, elephants in viral videos & Flamingo Flocking



7/27
Chill out at the Houston Zoo: Elephants in the kiddie pool, bears with ice pops & you're more than cool














9/12
City of lights enchants as ultimate destination inspiration for Elaine Turner's fall collection



9/6
Paris meets Houston: Behind the scenes at Elaine Turner's fall photo shoot 



9/1
Elaine Turner's collections always start with a muse: For fall, it's Audrey Hepburn


























Style File pick for 09.08
Christian Miranda
Read about why we made this choice >

Nominate someone for Style File >















        
        Would you consider buying an electric car?
      

	Houston is installing charging stations to encourage residents to go electric. Would you?





















9.5
Pilots can now travel lighter because of ForeFlight co-founder Tyson Weihs' app-mazing product



8.29
The entrepreneurs of Community Cloth are knitting a better future



8.22
How sweet it is: Marcelo Kreindel makes the move from software manager to gelato master

























Home
|
About Us
|
News Tips & Suggestions
|
Submit Your Event
|
Advertise
|
Terms and Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
|
Turn Mobile View On


                Copyright 2009-2011 CultureMap, LLC|Powered by Mouth Watering Media, LLC










Related

                Articles





A wildfire drill almost gone wrong: Seeing smoke in suburban San Antonio






On a wildfires mission: Chris Shepherd has food trucks, a commandeered party bus & a foodie army rolling to help






Parker says the city is watering "signature trees," pleads for help from people who love parks






Gawkers a problem at Texas wildfires: "Utter devastation" of forest turned moonscape draws onlookers 






Houston restaurants rally to take food to victims of Montgomery and Waller County fires






                Places







Canyon Creek






                Lists





Test Drives: Today's hottest cars








Alerts 
1



Breaking News >



09.11.11
02:50 pm

Houston Texans absolutely humiliate the Indianapolis Colts with Phillips' power defense




















Subscribe

Login




Tweet

































