Citizen Patriot Response Update: Texas Wildfires and Shelter  | Texas GOP Vote

 About Texas GOP Vote
Contact Us
   Texas GOP Vote   Restore    Renew    Reunite



Spotlight

Remembering 9/11
Texas Wildfires - You can help!
Coryell County GOP CD-25 Candidate Forum
 




    
 


Issues

Grow the Economy
Keep Taxes Low
Stop Big Government
Fix Immigration
Reclaim Education
Restore Families
 




 



    


 







Knowledge Topics

Remembering 9/11
Obama Jobs Speech
The Response Prayer Rally
Debt Ceiling
Medina Valley HS prayer ban
Super Massive Blue Hole
Hispanic Republican Conference Interviews
2012 Presidential Election
2012 Republican Primary
Texas Redistricting
Gambling in Texas?
Texas House - Hispanic Republican Conference
Obama Birth Certificate
Hotze Immigration Video
Texas Budget
Brian Terry Murder & Investigation
2011 Legislative Session
CPAC 2011
Constitutional Convention
Obamacare Unconstitutional
Egyptian Protests
2012 Republican Primary
State Sovereignty
Health Care
Misclassification & Illegal Workers
Arizona shooting
Exclusive Rick Perry Interview
States vs Federal Government
Tax Cuts
Cancun Climate Summit
Generation Zero Movie
DREAM Act
Scan 'n Grope
Ground Zero Mosque
Fourteenth Amendment
2010 Elections
BP Horizon Blowout
Los Zetas in Laredo?
E.B. Johnson (TX-30) Scholarship Gate Scandal
Broden vs. Johnson (TX-30)
RPT Convention
Vote No Prop 1
Arizona Immigration Summit
Arizona Immigration
Texas House Speaker Race
CPAC 2010 
March For America
TX-MX Border Battle
 






 


Latest Posts

Pete Sessions Statement on Commemorating 9/11
Dale, Texas wildfire outbreak - Citizen Response Needed
Ten Years Later
9/11 at 10 Years: Videos And Tributes
Urgent call to action - Texas wildfires - Advisory (VIDEO)
Remembering 9/11 - State Senator (Lt. Colonel) Brian Birdwell, A Story of Survival and Grace
NAACP President in Jasper, TX Arrested in Connection with Criminal Son Busted with Drugs in School Zone
Cornyn Statement Following Major Disaster Declaration for Bastrop County
We Must Never Forget! Attack On Prayer!
Call to Action in Houston Saturday Regarding Texas Wildfire Disaster 
more 



 



Home » Blogs » Brandon Darby's blogCitizen Patriot Response Update: Texas Wildfires and Shelter 


By Brandon Darby 


The Texas Forest Service is reporting that a total of 1,626 homes have been destroyed by wildfires across Texas in the past seven days. 1,386 of these destroyed homes were from the Bastrop fire. The other 240 destroyed homes are from other fires raging across Texas. The areas hardest hit at this time are near Austin, near Houston, and in northeast Texas. Twenty new wildfires were reported yesterday. These new fires cover approximately 1,422 acres. There are currently 126,844 acres burning across the state of Texas. Our organization spent the majority of the day visiting the Command and Control Center in Bastrop, Texas. We also visited the largest shelter in Bastrop in the Ascension Catholic Church. Thankfully, law enforcement, EMS workers, church workers and other volunteers were very open to discussion and offered detailed insight into the problems and needs of the families who have lost homes.The Command and Control Center indicated that clear and consistent information was the most needed of anything. Several tables of volunteers were busy helping people with paperwork, counseling, and animal placement. They were stocked up on supplies.Discussions with law enforcement revealed that approximately 500 ground firefighters were working on the blaze which was stated to be at 30% contained — a number that had not changed in twenty-four hours. They stated that the firefighters were well supplied with water. Law enforcement also indicated that live powerlines were a significant threat at this time. One officer told us that a local electric company crew had been trapped by the fires and had to be rescued by helicopter.The shelter at the Ascension Catholic Church was also well stocked. The director of operations was kind and willing to discuss the circumstances they were facing. Initially, the director stated that they were overstocked on any needed item and were turning away any more supplies. When we inquired about any lower-income communities or churches in the area, we discovered that many of them didnt have enough resources. We suggested to the director that he might consider accepting resources and delivering them to the smaller churches and lower income communities.Our experiences with disaster response tend to show that well-intentioned disaster area leaders frequently do not have good lines of communication with each other. Therefore, tomorrow Citizen Patriot Response will contact all church leaders in Bastrop county and attempt to assess the needs and encourage more communication and cooperation between these groups.In addition, we will attempt to visit the Spicewood, Texas area and assist local efforts in any way needed. Their fire destroyed 38 homes. The local 9-12 group from Dripping Springs, Texas and the Cedar Park 9-12 group have been leading the efforts in that region to address the needs of homeowners who are now in need.We received calls and emails from many individuals and groups today from across Texas. They offered support and facilities for collecting resources. This is both kind and wise due to the threat of wildfires across the state. This organization strongly recommends for each region to have a planned site to gather or obtain aid.Tea Party, 9-12, and other liberty-minded groups should plan ahead and contact us regarding a possible future fire in their area.My relationships within law enforcement indicate that the possiblity of terrorist attacks on 911 are likely to be from a 25 cent book of matches. Our state is very dry — read very vulnerable right now. It is also important to remember that many far-left of center activists in Texas openly advocate for the use of arson to damage our state — as was the case with our governor’s mansion. It is imperative for Texans to be prepared to help each other.Though clearly the average citizen is unable to put out a pine forest fire, many of our state’s fires are in fields. Therefore, Tea Party, 9-12, and other liberty-minded groups should consider keeping a supply of shovels for helping stop fires and bottled water for hydration. Texans having a shovel in their truck bed or car trunk would be wise. Unfortunately, it is common for people to stand around a small fire as it spreads and wait for firefighters to handle it. We would like to remind Texans that dirt thrown on fire is a good solution. Though FEMA might be inclined to dislike citizens helping to stop fires themselves, we find it unlikely that the image of thousands of Texans with shovels being told to let their state burn would be feasable for them.We are also proud to announce that the Citizen Patriot Response Shelter is scheduled to intake our first guest tomorrow. Non-perishable foods would be greatly appreciated. All items should be sent to our Headquarters and Shelter — the address: 21 Cotton Gin Road, Uhland, Texas 78640Please expect more updates as we visit and assess the needs of the numerous areas in Texas with fires currently or recently damaging the homes of families. Please expect more calls to action as well — Though we have been trained to wait for government to help those in need, we can do a lot for each other.As always, if you or your organization is trying to help others and needs help — please contact us. We will by no means turn you away. 
By Brandon Darby at Sep 9, 2011 1:59 PM

Brandon Darby's blog
Add new comment
 Post to Twitter

Posted under: Community
Restore Families
Bastrop Fire
Citizen Patriot Response
Texas drought
Texas wildfires

    


© TexasGOPVote.com  | Terms of use | Contact | About Texas GOP Vote  













Search this site: 












  

  







 








Pol.Ad.Pd. for by Dianne Costa for US Congress Campaign 






 



     


GOP Bloggers

 Cathie AdamsDavid BellowAdryana BoyneRudy CajkaDanielle ChavezTom DonelsonDebbie GeorgatosSonja HarrisStephanie Klick Larry PerraultBob PriceMark Ramsey  Full Blogger List » 


Help Support TexasGOPVote











     


Tag Cloud

healthcare reform
Obama
Latinos and the GOP
video
Constitution
Rick Perry
Conservative Latino Radio Show
unemployment rate
Texas Legislature
climate change
112th Congress
Pelosi
Arizona
abortion
terrorism
military
global warming
TEA Party
pro-life
liberal concoctions
more topics 










