	Texas wildfire burns 1,000 homes in one week, officials say | 						NOLA.com














Sign in | Register for free












Sign in to NOLA.com



Username


 

Password




Remember me

I forgot my username or password »




			Don't have an account?
			Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:




AIM  
				Google  
				OpenID













Site Search




Search Local Business Listings
























Home
News
Weather
Sports
Entertainment
Living
Interact
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Rentals
Classified Ads


News
Top Photos
Top Videos
Crime
Politics
Business
Education
Environment
Opinions
Obits
Traffic/Fires
Katrina







  

  







Home > Louisiana Environment and Flood Control > Breaking News


Texas wildfire burns 1,000 homes in one week, officials say
Published: Tuesday, September 06, 2011,  4:00 PM 


	By 
	
	
	
	
		
			
	
		
			
	
		
	
	
	
	
	The Associated Press

The Associated Press
Follow















2



Tweet










Share
close

Google Buzz
Digg
Stumble Upon
Fark
Reddit



Share
Email
Print






AUSTIN, Texas — More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze close to Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday.View full sizeEric Gay, The Associated PressHayden Wilhelm sprays water on hot spots at a neighbor's home that burned when wildfires swept through Bastrop, Texas. More than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, officials said Tuesday. Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina on Monday to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin, where a fast-moving blaze destroyed nearly 600 homes on Monday.At a news conference afterward, he marveled at the destruction and pointing out that more than 100,000 acres in the drought-stricken state had burned over the past week, and that more than 3.5 million acres — an area roughly the size of Connecticut — had burned since December."Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."Some residents said they were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods."We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this," Dave Wilhelm, 38, who lives just east of Bastrop said. "All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left."Wilhelm returned Tuesday to find his neighbor's house and three vehicles gone, some of his own children's backyard toys destroyed but their house spared."Some stuff is smoldering on the lot behind us. Inside of the house, we smell like a campfire. We're definitely very lucky."The fire had scorched some 30,000 acres by Tuesday, and the Texas Forest Service said crews were still trying to contain it. State emergency management chief Nim Kidd said that the fire was the most destructive fire of the year in Texas, and that the number of homes destroyed will likely go up, once the hardest-hit areas are assessed.The blaze was one of dozens that started Sunday in Texas and that were fed by strong wind gusts caused by Tropical Storm Lee. Forestry officials said that Tuesday's calmer winds would help firefighting efforts."It's encouraging we don't have winds right now, not like yesterday," Texas Forest Service spokeswoman Victoria Koenig saidEven with the encouraging conditions, Koenig said it was a "tough, tough fire" that was raging through rugged terrain, including a ridge of hills."You can still see the hills glowing quite a bit," she said.At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said Monday. School and school-related activities were canceled Tuesday.In Bastrop, a town of about 6,000 people along the Colorado River, huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over downtown Monday. When winds picked up, flames flared over the tops of trees. Helicopters and planes loaded with water flew overhead, and firefighters along a state highway outside the city converged around homes catching fire.There were no immediate reports of injuries, and officials said they knew of no residents trapped in their homes.Perry, who was scheduled to take part in a Republican presidential debate on Wednesday, declined to say whether he would skip the event to stay in Texas."We'll deal with that when it comes up," he said. "I'm substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of."Perry, a tea party favorite who has made a political career of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires. He also expressed frustration that equipment at Fort Hood, including bulldozers and equipment that can cut deep fissures in the earth, are not already in use."Whenever you've got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger, in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to," Perry said. "If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping become part of the solution, that's a problem."Several other states were also fighting wildfires on Tuesday.In California, a fire near Tehachapi, in Kern County, was threatening 650 homes and a windmill farm had grown to more than 20 square miles. The winds died down early Tuesday and crews were aggressively attacking the blaze, said Daniel Berlant, spokesman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.That fire started Sunday when a small plane crashed in the remote area. At least two people are confirmed dead in the crash.The fire had destroyed 12 homes and 18 outbuildings and is about 10 percent contained, Kern County Fire Department spokesman Victor Cruz said.And in northwestern Louisiana, wildfires had burned at least 500 acres and three homes near the town of Ida and forced the evacuation of dozens of residents.Caddo Parish Sheriff Steve Prator said the fires started over the weekend in northern Caddo Parish. Firefighting crews were dispatched from parish fire districts, nearby towns and cities and eastern Texas and southern Arkansas.No injuries were reported.By Will Weissert, Associated Press 









Sponsored Links
















Share this story









Print
Email
Story tools









More stories in Louisiana Environment and Flood Control


Previous storyNonprofit group takes issue with DEQ for allowing paper mill to reopen


Next storyFish kill effects, penalties must be monitored, state officials warn







Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.









2


Comments Feed





				View: 
				
					Oldest first | Newest first















	
		
	
	
	
	
	selfindulgence

September 06, 2011 at  4:33PM

Follow



 So Fema is only supposed to help democrats?

Inappropriate? Alert us.
Reply
Post new















	
		
	
	
	
	
	dimdingledon

September 06, 2011 at  4:45PM

Follow



I'm sure we will see the insurance companies back out their legal obligations and stick it to the policy holders.  I got so pissed when I saw that Allstate banner in the dome, I gave my season tickets away.  The state should have run Allstate out of town for good and certainly not let them get positive exposure after screwing the citizens of the Gulf Coast.   Just like bogus contractors are exposed and lose the privilege of doing business in the state, the same should be true for insurers.

Inappropriate? Alert us.
Reply
Post new






















Post a comment (You may use HTML tags for style)
					

















You must accept the terms of service before you can post a comment.






Post a comment

Sign in to NOLA.com






Username



Password





 Remember me?




I forgot my username or password »




Don't have an account?
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:



AIM
Google
 OpenID




































More Louisiana Environment and Flood Control
  Most Comments Most Recent  












Most Active UsersWhat's this?




Users with the most NOLA.com comments in the last 7 days

204

  

Stannum
99

  

Zap
79

  

LombardiLive...
68

  

muspench
66

  

NorthLAsaint...











Connect with NOLA.comWhat's this?







All Facebook & Twitter accounts »

















From Our Advertisers












Advertise With Us »














Popular TagsWhat's this?



















Site Search




Search Local Business Listings





















Site Map | Advertise | Contact us
 Make us your home page



Home | News | Weather | Sports | Entertainment | Interact | Living | Jobs | Autos | Real Estate | Classifieds | Shopping | Place an Ad




Your Photos
Your Videos
Blogs
Forums
Travel
Music




Post a Job
Post a free classified ad
Sell your car
Sell/Rent your Home
Apartments & Rentals
Claim your Business Listing for Free




Business News
US & World News
Obits / Death Notices
Live Webcams
Pets







Subscribe to our content (RSS)
News alerts
NOLA.com Twitter feed
NOLA.com mobile site
View mobile product offerings







 Subscribe to The Times-Picayune today and get incredible savings off home delivery! Subscribe Now!
© 2010 New Orleans Net LLC. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement. Please read our Privacy Policy. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.































