Deadly wildfires claim more than 1,000 Texas homes | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Monday, September 12, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Waco News 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS








Please enable JavaScript to view this site



Deadly wildfires claim more than 1,000 Texas homes
By Jim Vertuno  and Michael Graczyk Associated Press
Wednesday September 7, 2011

  









   Email
   Print
  




		 
	

		 
	

BASTROP — One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.
More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State.
Nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.
Fire damage is widespread from a fire in the Bastrop area. More than 1,000 homes have been claimed by at least 57 wildfires. William Luther, San Antonio Express-News / Associated Press
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee’s winds during the weekend, the blaze burned at least 40 square miles, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four.
“We lost everything,” said Willie Clements, whose two-story colonial home in a neighborhood near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames.
On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, “United We Stand.”
“This is the beginning of our new family album,” the 51-year-old Clements said.
The crisis represents a test of leadership for Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina on Monday to return home. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, which is about 25 miles from Austin.
“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,” he said. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.”
The governor would not say whether he would take part in this evening’s Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was “substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of.” But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that the governor planned to be at the event.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and “we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires.”
About 370 firefighters battled the blazes, many of them arriving from out of state after Texas called in help.
“We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,” said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. At least six homes were lost in a fire that is 40 percent contained. In far Northeast Texas’ Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland.
Willie Clements surveys his fire-destroyed home Tuesday near Bastrop. At least four people have been killed and thousands more evacuated because of the wildfires. William Luther, San Antonio Express-News / Associated Press
And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.
In Bosque County, a fire at Cedar Ridge remained  85 percent contained at about 7 p.m. Tuesday, Texas Forest Service spokesman Patrick Allen said.
Estimating that it scorched about 916 acres of land, Allen said everything appeared to be “in good shape” for putting the stubborn blaze out once and for all, even though firefighters likely would remain on the scene to monitor hot spots. Although the fire threatened six houses, no homes were lost, he said.
“The containment lines are holding just fine,” Allen said.
In Limestone County, where four fires raged Sunday, only smoldering from the largest fire remained, Limestone County Sheriff Dennis Wilson said.
Smoke was still visible from that area, off County Road 491 near Prairie Hill, Wilson said. But the fire is contained, he said, even as hot spots remain.
The blaze is estimated to have damaged about 3,000 acres, threatened six homes and consumed one, according to information from  the Texas Forest Service.
Wilson said he was unable to confirm that information.
The sheriff said authorities are asking residents to ensure they are accurately reporting whether they are seeing smoke or fire, noting that resources are spread thin.
“We know there’s smoke out there,” he said, explaining that many residents have been reporting smoke sightings as fires. “We need you to report actually seeing a flame — something physically, visibly on fire when you call.”
Wilson said the scene Sunday was unlike any he had witnessed.
“The wind was swirling so much,” he said. “It was scary and amazing to see how fast the fire was moving at times.”
Staff writer Kirsten Crow contributed to this story.




  









   Email
   Print
  




			 
		


				MORE IN WACO NEWS »























 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 
Blogs





 

Joe Science
Waco back in triple digits

 
 
 
 
Sound & Sight
Friday amusement: The Build-Your-Own-Bear Conference

 
 
 
 
High School Sports
Bonus football notes: Tidbits about Central Texas teams
Podcast: This week's football preview

 
 
 
 
The Bear Blog
Podcast: Talking TCU (RG3 for Heisman?), Big 12 future and more

 
 
 

Music Notes
Holly Tucker Releases New CD After Winning Prestigious Statewide Music Competition

 
 
 
 
Waco Politics Report
Jim Dunnam talks to Bryan-College Station Democrats

 
 
 
 
Mike's Marketplace
C3/Customer Contact Channels still seeking job applicants

 
 
 
 
Wendy Does Waco
Trying to pick up the pace

 
 
 

Order Up!
More frozen yogurt headed to Waco

 
 
 
 
 
More blogs
Voices around the community.
• All blogs
 
 








 













 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 







 





 

 







 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




