LIVE: SL vs AUS, 2nd Test, Day 1 | Up2dateNews


About Us   |   Contact Us









 








Home
Anna
Breaking News
World
India
Sports
Hindi
Cities

Delhi-NCR
Mumbai
Kolkata
Chennai
Bangalore
Hyderabad
Ahmedabad
Indore
Pune


 





LIVE: SL vs AUS, 2nd Test, Day 1

Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat against Australia in the second Test at the Pallekele international stadium in Kandy.
LIVE SCORECARD
Preview
After the forgettable Galle Test the focus now shifts on to Kandy and the onus is squarely on the home side to turn the tables against the resurgent Australia.
Michael Clarke will be a happy man after a thumping win in his first game as captain and would look to continue with the winning momentum.
The Australian side had a superlative performance at Galle on a horrid wicket. The batting, however, was ordinary in comparison to their standards. But a couple of crucial knocks played by Hussey and Clarke respectively proved pivotal in their victory.
Bowling wins you Test matches and the last game was a prime example of it. Debutant Lyon oozed class with the ball and impressed one and all with his spin bowling prowess. The fast bowling department on a whole was not impressive with the new ball, barring Ryan Harris in the second innings, but when it started to reverse they became lethal to handle. The wicket at Pallekele is also spinner-friendly and the Aussies are opting for the same playing XI, of course with one change; Marsh in place of Ponting. Sri Lanka, on the flip side, are still struggling to win a Test match without Muralidaran.
The batting let them down in the first Test match and after conceding a big lead on a turning wicket they were playing catch-up. The pace bowling lacked firepower but the spinners held fort and performed reasonably well. The hosts need a serious brush-up in their batting department and good results will start to follow. The visitors will be favourites heading into this game but to write off Sri Lanka in their own den could be risky. 
Sri Lanka: Mahela Jayawardena, Tharanga Paranavitana, Thilan Samaraweera, Tillakaratne Dilshan, Ajantha Mendis, Chanaka Welegedara, Dammika Prasad, Lahiru Thirimanne, Rangana Herath, Seekkuge Prasanna, Shaminda Eranga, Suraj Randiv, Suranga Lakmal, Angelo Mathews, Kumar Sangakkara, Prasanna JayawardeneAustralia: David Warner, Michael Clarke, Michael Hussey, Philip Hughes, Ricky Ponting, Shaun Marsh, Usman Khawaja, James Pattinson, Michael Beer, Mitchell Johnson, Nathan Lyon, Peter Siddle, Ryan Harris, Trent Copeland, Shane Watson, Brad Haddin

8 Sep
Reply





Got anything to say? Go ahead and leave a comment!

Click here to cancel reply.




Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)



Website


XHTML: You can use these tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> 






















 Categories 
Ahmedabad

Bangalore

Breaking News

Business

Chennai

Delhi-NCR

Finance

Hindi News

Hyderabad

India News

Indore

Kolkata

Mumbai

Politics

Pune

Sports

Technology

Travel

USA News

Weather

World News


  Latest News 
The Choice Blog: Part 1: Answers to Your Back-to-School Admissions Questions
Andy Whitfield, Star of ‘Spartacus’ Series, Dies at 39
Bruce Dan, 64, Dies; Helped Link Toxic Shock and Tampons
The Caucus: Johnson and Roosevelt Legacies at Stake in Fiscal Fight
Deficit Panel Gets New Message: ‘Go Big’
Security Scares on Sept. 11 Anniversary
The TV Watch: On Slow and Somber Anniversary, News Media Try to Stay Out of the Picture
Photojournalist attacked in road rage
Tamil Nadu: Locals protest against Koodankulam nuclear plant
Assets case: Supreme Court asks Jayalalithaa to appear before Special court on Oct 20

  
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 


  Top StoriesCourt martialled female IAF officer commits suicideNot a shred of evidence against Narendra Modi, says BJPGujarat riots case: Trial court to decide whether Narendra Modi should be probedAt 3.3%, July’s IIP grows slowest in 24-monthsCash-for-votes scam: Amar Singh blames BJPAssets case: Supreme Court asks Jayalalithaa to appear before Special court on Oct 20US Open final: Stosur upsets Williams 6-2, 6-3










			Design & developed By Colnovation 
Disclaimer






