 » Blogging: It’s Not About Fame » Apogee Results - The Online Marketing Authority | Austin, Texas










Call 855.360.4601

Search for:



 


Skip to content
Online Marketing Services

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Managment
Content Development & Copywriting


Resources

Get Our Free Online Marketing Newsletter
Online Marketing Glossary
Webinars
White Papers
Paid Search Advertising FAQ
Organic Search Engine Optimization (SEO) FAQ
Ethical Search Engine Optimization Commitment


About

About Apogee Results
Management Team
Solution Partners
Our Clients
Careers


Events
Blog
Contact Us









Recent Testimonials From Apogee Clients →


Blogging: It’s Not About Fame

Posted on September 12, 2011 by admin 


In his recent article for Wired, Valleywagger Paul Boutin makes the claim that “Blogging is so 2004″ and ones’ efforts are better spent on Twitter or YouTube.
Writing a weblog today isn’t the bright idea it was  four years ago. The blogosphere, once a freshwater oasis of folksy  self-expression and clever thought, has been flooded by a tsunami of  paid bilge. Cut-rate journalists and underground marketing campaigns now  drown out the authentic voices of amateur wordsmiths. It’s almost  impossible to get noticed, except by hecklers. And why bother? The time  it takes to craft sharp, witty blog prose is better spent expressing  yourself on Flickr, Facebook, or Twitter.
Boutin goes on to cite Robert Scoble and Jason Calcanis as examples  of ex-bloggers who’ve moved on to other forms of social media as a form  of self-expression, noting their prominence in the tech sector but not  stating the obvious fact that they might be on a different pulse than  mainstream internet users. Of course the internet illuminati are going  to move on to the next new thing, but my best friend still keeps a  LiveJournal.
The main point Boutin tries to make here is that the blogosphere is  overrun with poor content and amateur punditry- it is now nearly  impossible for Joe Blogger’s blog entry to rise up and rank higher than a  professional blog like the Huffington Post, even if the topic and the  writing quality are the same. What he doesn’t consider within the essay,  however, is the importance of inbound links and domain strength. Some  of the most famous personal bloggers have been blogging on their domains  for almost a decade- Heather Armstrong registered Dooce.com in 2000-  and many receive publicity bolstered by book deals, national media attention, and speaking engagements.  Corporate blogs and new outlets have the money and connections, not to  mention the staff and domain strength, to quickly gain and retain  popularity. Boutin’s correct about one thing- if it’s difficult to be a  famous blogger now, it’s because the playing field is far from even.
However, the purpose of blogging isn’t necessarily internet fame-  corporate blogs still provide an elegant, efficient means for a company  to communicate on their own terms while pursuing long-tail keywords and  increasing inbound links to their site, and free platforms such as  Blogger and Xanga provide a creative outlet for millions of amateur  writers. Blogging doesn’t require video editing tools or condensing your  thoughts into 140 characters. (Some people I follow on Twitter will  spread out a thought over several missives, but if what you’re saying on  Twitter takes more than one tweet to convey, you’re doing it wrong.)  Blogging is the means to a whole host of ends, and though there might be  newer technologies out there, none are full replacements for blogs.
Ironically enough, Paul Boutin has made a name for himself as a correspondent for Valleywag,  a Silicon Valley news and gossip blog (part of Nick Denton’s Gawker  Media empire). So you’re reading a blog post about a blog post in which a  professional blogger says blogging is passe.
Doesn’t sound like blogging’s dead to me.
 

						This entry was posted in Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Social Media Marketing and tagged Search Engine Marketing, Social Media. Bookmark the permalink.											



Recent Testimonials From Apogee Clients →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Name 
Email 
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

















Let's Be Social!


Twitter
Facebook
StumbleUpon
Digg

Delicious
RSS Feed







Free Online Marketing Newsletter 
Stay on top of online marketing trends and insight. Delivered to your inbox once per month. See example.






Email











Email Marketing You Can Trust

ServicesSearch Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Management
Content Development and Copywriting
 



Blog Categories 
Blog (21)

Business Vertical (74)

B2B (5)

B2C (3)

eCommerce (71)

Lead Generation (4)

Project Management (1)



Events (61)

Austin Community (29)

Speaking Events (5)

Tradeshows (6)



Online Marketing (656)

Content Development Strategy (5)

Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO) (11)

Online Reputation Management (7)

Pay-Per-Click (PPC) (168)

Search Engine Optimization (SEO) (216)

Social Media Marketing (42)

User Experience (UX) (24)

Web Analytics Optimization (27)




 











 
 







Online Marketing Services

Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Pay Per Click (PPC) Advertising
Web Analytics & Conversion Rate Optimization
Social Media
Online Reputation Management
Content Development & Copywriting



About Apogee Results


Management Team

Our Clients’ Success
Solutions Partners
Careers
Privacy | Legal | Sitemap



Let's Be Social

Subscribe to our Blog
Email Newsletter
Linkedin
Facebook
StumbleUpon
Digg
Delicious



Contact Apogee Results
8701 North Mopac Expy, Suite 400Austin, Texas 78759

855.360.4601












