
	NHL News: Pro Sports Daily







	Untitled Page






















Home



Fantasy




 Fantasy Main
 Baseball Contest
Football Contests»




 Football 3-Play
 Pigskin Pick em
 College Bowl Pick'em





 College Basketball Brackets
 Fantasy Football Advice
 Fantasy Baseball Advice
 Fantasy Basketball Advice
 Fantasy Hockey Advice








MLB

 MLB News
 MLB Rumors
 MLB Columns
 MLB Forum
 MLB Scores
 MLB Odds
 MLB Injuries
 MLB Standings 
 MLB Statistics





NFL

 NFL News
 NFL Rumors
 NFL Columns
 NFL Draft
 NFL Forum
 NFL Scores
 NFL Odds
 NFL Injuries
 NFL Standings 
 NFL Statistics





NBA

 NBA News
 NBA Rumors
 NBA Columns
 NBA Draft
 NBA Forum
 NBA Scores
 NBA Odds
 NBA Injuries
 NBA Standings 
 NBA Statistics





NHL

 NHL News
 NHL Rumors
 NHL Columns
 NHL Forum
 NHL Scores
 NHL Odds
 NHL Injuries
 NHL Standings 
 NHL Statistics





Forums

 Forum Main
Baseball»

 MLB
 Arizona Diamondbacks
 Comparisons
 Atlanta Braves
 Baltimore Orioles
 Boston Red Sox
 Chicago Cubs
 Chicago White Sox
 Cincinnati Reds
 Cleveland Indians
 Colorado Rockies
 Detroit Tigers
 Florida Marlins
 Houston Astros
 Kansas City Royals
 Los Angeles Angels
 Los Angeles Dodgers
 Milwaukee Brewers
 Minnesota Twins
 New York Mets
 New York Yankees
 Oakland Athletics
 Philadelphia Phillies
 Pittsburgh Pirates
 St. Louis Cardinals
 San Diego Padres
 San Francisco Giants
 Seattle Mariners
 Tampa Bay Rays
 Texas Rangers
 Toronto Blue Jays
 Washington Nationals
 Hall of Fame
 MLB Mock Offseason
 Minor Prospects
 Sabermetrics
 OOTP League
 



Basketball»

 NBA
 NBA Draft
 Comparisons
 NBA Trade Ideas
 NBA Sim League
 Atlanta Hawks
 Boston Celtics
 Charlotte Bobcats
 Chicago Bulls
 Cleveland Cavaliers
 Dallas Mavericks
 Denver Nuggets
 Detroit Pistons
 Golden State Warriors
 Houston Rockets
 Indiana Pacers
 Los Angeles Clippers
 Los Angeles Lakers
 Memphis Grizzlies
 Miami Heat
 Milwaukee Bucks
 Minnesota T-Wolves
 New Jersey Nets
 New Orleans Hornets
 New York Knicks
 OKC Thunder
 Orlando Magic
 Philadelphia 76ers
 Phoenix Suns
 Portland Trail Blazers
 Sacramento Kings
 San Antonio Spurs
 Toronto Raptors
 Utah Jazz
 Washington Wizards
 College Basketball
 FIBA/International
 NBA Mock Offseason



Football»

 NFL
 Arizona Cardinals
 Comparisons
 Atlanta Falcons
 NFL Sim League
 Baltimore Ravens
 Buffalo Bills
 Carolina Panthers
 Chicago Bears
 Cincinnati Bengals
 Cleveland Browns
 Dallas Cowboys
 Denver Broncos
 Detroit Lions
 Green Bay Packers
 Houston Texans
 Indianapolis Colts
 Jacksonville Jaguars
 Kansas City Chiefs
 Miami Dolphins
 Minnesota Vikings
 New England Patriots
 New Orleans Saints
 New York Giants
 New York Jets
 Oakland Raiders
 Philadelphia Eagles
 Pittsburgh Steelers
 St. Louis Rams
 San Diego Chargers
 San Francisco 49ers
 Seattle Seahawks
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers
 Tennessee Titans
 Washington Redskins
 NFL Draft
 NFL Mock Offseason
 College Football
 CFL
 Arena Football
 NFL Hall of Fame
 ACC
 Big East
 Big Ten
 Big 12
 Pac-10
 Southeastern
 



Hockey»

 NHL
 NHL Re-Draft
 Anaheim Ducks
 Boston Bruins
 Buffalo Sabres
 Calgary Flames
 Carolina Hurricanes
 Chicago Blackhawks
 Colorado Avalanche
 Columbus Blue Jackets
 Dallas Stars
 Detroit Red Wings
 Edmonton Oilers
 Florida Panthers
 Los Angeles Kings
 Minnesota Wild
 Montreal Canadiens
 Nashville Predators
 New Jersey Devils
 New York Islanders
 New York Rangers
 Ottawa Senators
 Philadelphia Flyers
 Phoenix Coyotes
 Pittsburgh Penguins
 St. Louis Blues
 San Jose Sharks
 Tampa Bay Lightning
 Toronto Maple Leafs
 Vancouver Canucks
 Washington Capitals
 Winnipeg Jets
 NHL Mock OffSeason
 



General»

 General Discussions
 Introductions
 Feedback and Support
 Entertainment
 Fantasy Football
 Fantasy Basketball
 Fantasy Baseball
 Fantasy Hockey
 Site Rules
 Computers/Vid Games
 Politics
 Music



Blogs»

 Athlete Blogs
 Member Blogs



Other Sports»

 Boxing
 Soccer
 Golf
 Motor Sports
 Other Sports
 Poker
 Wrestling
 Mixed Martial Arts
 Health & Fitness



Graphics»

 Graphic Help
 Showcase
 Requests
 Competitions
 Team Galleries
 Signature League









Scores

 MLB Scores
 NFL Scores
 NBA Scores
 NHL Scores





More

 Site Map
 Contact Us














NHL
NHL News
NHL Rumors
NHL Columns
NHL Forum
Avalanche NewsBlackhawks NewsBlue Jackets NewsBlues NewsBruins NewsCanadiens NewsCanucks NewsCapitals NewsCoyotes NewsDevils NewsDucks NewsFlames NewsFlyers NewsHurricanes NewsIslanders NewsJets NewsKings NewsLightning NewsMaple Leafs NewsOilers NewsPanthers NewsPenguins NewsPredators NewsRangers NewsRed Wings NewsSabres NewsSenators NewsSharks NewsStars NewsWild News









            NHL News
        


Discuss with 15 NHL Fans in the forum!




                        Bylsma likely to add 2-3 different faces to Pens' roster
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
                     
                
                "There will be, Penguins coach Dan Bylsma figures, no more than "two to three" spots up for grabs on his team's 23-man roster when it opens training camp later this week. That could change, of course -- injuries and trades and such can cause seismic alterations in any team's plans -- but the lineup that tied for the third-most points in the NHL in 2010-11 largely intact, and the Penguins still have some of the game's most elite talents on their payroll. But even if their personnel stay largely the same between now and the regular-season opener Oct. 6, in Vancouver that doesn't mean a few things won't be dramatically different in 2011-12."
            



                        Sabres set to mix and match
                    

                                
                    September 12
                    Buffalo News
                     
                
                "The easiest way to explain the emotions, Robyn Regehr said, is to imagine you're the new kid in school. The faces are unfamiliar, the course load is alien and the scenery is strange. Yet beneath the anxiety, there is a thrill of anticipation, an eagerness to learn fresh things. Classes start this week for Regehr and the rest of the Buffalo Sabres. The 2011-12 NHL season begins Friday when the Sabres formally arrive in town for physicals. They'll take the ice for the first time Saturday in Northtown Center at Amherst. "For me, it's quite a bit different than a lot of the players that are returning," said Regehr, one of the Sabres' prime additions during the offseason. "Just being a part of"
            



                        Hawks star Kane says he'll be ready for opener 
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Chicago Sun-Times
                     
                
                "Blackhawks star Patrick Kane still has a cast on his left wrist, but he has no doubts about being ready to play when the season opens Oct. 7. ''It's been a long time, and I'm anxious to start the season,'' Kane said Saturday as he and four teammates took part in Blackhawks Day at U.S. Cellular Field. ''I think I'll be ready right away. I think once I get this [cast] off, I'll be able to do pretty much anything. I practiced with the guys the other day, just trying to keep up with skating. I think just strengthening it will be the only thing.'' Kane had surgery to repair the fracture during an otherwise ''good summer,'' he said."
            



                        NHL can lend help, if a player wants it
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Minneapolis Star Tribune
                     
                
                "The NHL and NHL Players' Association will spend much of training camp reinforcing to players that there are resources available if they have problems with addiction or depression. The offseason deaths of Derek Boogaard, Rick Rypien and Wade Belak also caused the parties to say they would examine each death and conduct an evaluation of existing programs and practices. "I know they're taking a beating right now, but they've had programs in place for years to help," former Florida Panthers fighter Peter Worrell said. "I think a lot of it is the mentality that guys don't want to take that leap, to make that phone call and say, 'Look, I need help.' "Hopefully now guys will say, 'I don't want"
            



                        NHL's oldest player, Dwayne Roloson, remains Tampa Bay Lightning's No. 1 goaltender
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    St. Petersburg Times
                     
                
                "Dwayne Roloson did his best recently to convince an acquaintance his age is "just a number." "Just because you're born on a certain day, people think it's an issue," he said. Actually, it kind of is. The Lightning goaltender, the league's oldest player, will be 42 on Oct. 12, and he is the only player in the league born in the 1960s (1969). All of which makes the level of play he has maintained even more noteworthy. But it also means the questions he faced last season about handling the physical and mental demands of being a No. 1, especially through a long playoff run, are a year more relevant."
            



                        Selanne might put off decision until camp
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Orange County Register
                     
                
                "Teemu Selanne raised the possibility Friday of putting off his decision of playing a final NHL season with the Ducks until after training camp opens next week. Selanne skated each day this week in informal workouts at Anaheim Ice and continues to maintain he wants to announce a decision before camp opens Sept. 17, saying that "it would be best for everybody." But the winger, who is 41 and coming off an impressive 80-point season, followed that up by suggesting that he would want to test his surgically repaired left knee under high-intensity camp conditions before making a commitment for a 19th season — 13th with the franchise. Selanne is an unrestricted free agent and would need to sign a"
            



                        Devils center Travis Zajac faces uncertain timeframe in recovery from torn Achilles tendon
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Bergen Record
                     
                
                "In previous Septembers, Devils center Travis Zajac would have been back in New Jersey already, skating and getting ready for the start of training camp. When the team's veterans take their training camp physicals a week from today at Prudential Center, however, Zajac will still be in Winnipeg recovering from Aug. 18 surgery to repair a torn left Achilles tendon. "It hasn't really sunk in too much yet that I won't be there for camp and I won't be around for exhibition (games) and even the start of the season," Zajac said this afternoon in his first interview since he was injured. "I think once I get to Jersey and see some guys playing then it will be a lot tougher. That I'm away from it now"
            



                        Lander ready for shot at big league
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    Edmonton Journal
                     
                
                "There's no turning back now for Anton Lander. Two weeks ago he packed a suitcase, left from his home in Sweden and made his way to Edmonton to start his journey as an Oiler. He couldn't be more ready. Not only did the centre elect to spend the 2010 season with Timra, honing his game in the Swedish Elite League, he has culled valuable insight from Magnus Paajarvi, now poised to move into his second NHL campaign. The two were linemates with Timra and drafted in back-to-back rounds in 2009. Paajarvi was selected by the Oilers in the first round while Lander was a second-round pick."
            



                        Sharks say they're improved after transaction-filled offseason
                    

                                
                    September 11
                    San Jose Mercury News
                     
                
                "As the Sharks packed up their gear last spring after their second-consecutive Western Conference finals exit, players knew changes were coming. They just didn't realize how many. "It's been a pretty crazy offseason," forward Logan Couture said. "I've been like a fan, watching all this happen and just trying to take it all in. I was shocked by it all." The team has been re-assembling in San Jose as players take part in informal skates at the Sharks Ice training facility. While name tags aren't necessary, there will be plenty of new faces when the full squad reports for training camp Friday -- with the spotlight on All-Star defenseman Brent Burns and forward Martin Havlat. And there will be"
            



                        Holdouts possible for group of talented youngsters
                    

                                
                    September 10
                    Toronto Star
                     columnist Damien Cox
                
                "Maybe it's the return of Alexei Yashin to the scene of the crime that's causing the disruption. Yashin, after all, was the man at the centre of the last great NHL holdout when he sat out the entire 1999-2000 season while trying to force his way out of Ottawa.  He's back in North America these days, skating in irregular workouts with other New York Islander players, and suddenly there seems to be at least the possibility that the holdout, as a negotiating tool, may be on its way back as a feature of the NHL fall. Odd, that. Maybe not. Maybe all these young unsigned players will sign lucrative new deals in time for training camp, just as Bobby Ryan did last September with Anaheim. But while"
            



                        Capitals' Dennis Wideman back to 100%
                    

                                
                    September 10
                    Washington Post
                     
                
                "Dennis Wideman hadn't been able to skate all out at Kettler Capitals Iceplex since late March, but on Friday morning, as the Capitals defenseman participated in an informal workout, it appeared as though he had never been sidelined at the end of last season.  After completing the casual on-ice session, bag skate and off-ice workout with his teammates, Wideman said he has fully recovered from the leg hematoma that he suffered late last March and is ready to play.  "I'm 100 percent as far as skating and everything goes. I'm 100 percent," Wideman said. "There's still a little bit to catch up on, in just getting the response that you'd like to see out of your leg but I'm pretty close. I'm able"
            



                        Rangers' Gaborik mourns loss of former teammate in crash

                    

                                
                    September 10
                    New York Post
                     
                
                "Twenty-four hours after one of his best friends, Pavol Demitra, lost his life in a plane crash in Russia, Marian Gaborik was at a loss for words.  "You just can't really believe it, you know?" the Rangers star forward said yesterday after skating with many of his teammates at the team's Westchester practice complex. "It's tough. I can't imagine how it is for his family . . . it's a shock. All of a sudden, he's gone. It's horrible."  Demitra was one of the players on board when the plane carrying the KHL club Yaroslavl Lokomotiv crashed Wednesday in Russia.  Gaborik and Demitra, a three-time NHL All-Star, are from Slovakia. Over the past decade, the two played together frequently with the"
            



                        Capitals coach was supposed to be on a plane that hit tower
                    

                                
                    September 10
                    Washington Times
                     columnist Stephen Whyno
                
                "Bruce Boudreau seemed to be writing out his fate in an innocent message on his fridge: "September 11th, Flight L.A." It was 2001, and he was then the coach of the American Hockey League's Manchester Monarchs and needed to get from Boston to Los Angeles for the Los Angeles Kings' training camp. But Kings coach Andy Murray called with a change of plans; he wanted to have a coaches dinner on the night of the 10th, which required Mr. Boudreau and assistant coach Bobby Jay to get on a different flight. "We did," Mr. Boudreau said. "We got out there, we had a great dinner and didn't think anything of it." Until the next morning, when Mr. Boudreau woke up to a phone call from his wife, Crystal -"
            



                        Pronger skates, shoots as recovery continues
                    

                                
                    September 10
                    CSN Philly
                     
                
                "Chris Pronger was laughing and joking around with reporters after a 25-minute skate on the ice.   The only gear he was wearing at SkateZone on Friday morning was an iPod.   As for his music …   "I was doing a couple little dances out there," Pronger said. "There was no [Lady] Gaga at that particular moment when you saw me out there."      The last time Mr. Warmth was on the ice in a meaningful situation was last April 30 – Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Eastern Conference semifinals against Boston.   Pronger didn't attempt anything fancy. A lot of end-to-end strides. Some wicked slap shots.   That's important because, while his recovery from back surgery on May 12 has gone very well, Pronger"
            



                        Avalanche's Cumiskey signs a one-year deal
                    

                                
                    September 10
                    Denver Post
                     
                
                "The Avalanche's lone remaining unsigned player, defenseman Kyle Cumiskey, agreed to terms with the club Friday. Cumiskey, who missed most of last season with concussion injuries, signed a one-year, two-way deal with the Avalanche. If he plays with the Avs, his salary will be $708,000. If he is sent to the team's American Hockey League affiliate, the Lake Erie Monsters, his salary will be $105,000."
            



                        B's rooks looking like it
                    

                                
                    September 10
                    Boston Herald
                     
                
                "The Bruins [team stats] opened the rookie portion of training camp yesterday at Ristuccia Arena, and it was tough to spot the latest coming of Patrice Bergeron, Milan Lucic or Blake Wheeler.   Fairly regularly in years past, at least one rookie has played so well he made it impossible for the B's brass not to keep him.   But given a deep, veteran team that three months ago hoisted the Stanley Cup, there just doesn't appear much chance any of the 22 youngsters who'll skate for the next week and play exhibitions on Long Island against the Islanders rookies Monday and Tuesday are going to be on the opening night roster. "I would tend to agree, since the team has won the Stanley Cup," said"
            











    NHL Forum Top 5




                Plane of KHL Team Lokomotiv Crashes; 36 confirmed dead
            


                Last post: BranWingss
            



                Better Career: Seguin or Nugent-Hopkins
            


                Last post: kevin13697
            



                Better Career: Landeskog or Eberle
            


                Last post: kevin13697
            



                Cory Stillman to retire
            


                Last post: BranWingss
            



                Prospects that didn't pan out!
            


                Last post: Cal827
            





From the Network


September 12, 8:44 AM
Sharks A Better Team In The Long Run
September 12, 8:01 AM
Traverse City Game 2 Wrap Up
September 12, 7:39 AM
Rangers to Name Captains Today
September 12, 5:03 AM
Projecting the Shootout Lineups in the Pacific Division
September 12, 4:55 AM
Ranking the Penalty Killing Units in the Pacific Division




Headlines
NFLBradford injures nerve in fingerDez Bryant injures thigh on punt return, expects to be fine for San FranciscoMLBCards, Carpenter agree on two-year extensionBeckett to throw off mound MondayNBAReport: Fisher sent players text saying to be physically ready for seasonRubio's scoring struggles continueNHLBylsma likely to add 2-3 different faces to Pens' rosterSabres set to mix and match


ProSportsDaily Fantasy Sports




        Pick winners and win cash! Double your points with confidence picks. 
        Click Here.
    





        Your quick fantasy football fix! Pick a new QB, RB and WR every week.
        Click Here.
    





        Pitching. Outfield. Infield. Build a new team every week for your chance at the cash! 
        Click Here.
    











Your browser does not support iframes.





Customer Service: Site Map
    | Contact Us | Privacy
    | Terms of Service


Copyright © 1995-2011 
    SportsDirect Inc. All Rights Reserved.
ProSportsDaily.com is not affiliated with the NBA, NFL, MLB, or any
    of the newspapers linked to.


 




