GlobeAwake: Tragedy: Texas Wildfire Put 5,000 People Out of Homes












































































































































































Tuesday, September 6, 2011





Tragedy: Texas Wildfire Put 5,000 People Out of Homes







Firefighter against Mother Nature's Fury. Photo Credit: AP


Governor Rick Perry said on Tuesday that more than a thousand homes have been destroyed due to wildfires that are raging across Texas in the wake of a severe drought. Perry visited west Austin and witnessed first hand the damage happening there.

The Hard Facts
600+ homes destroyed in Bastrop County Complex, the most of any single fire in Texas history
5000 people evacuated from Bastrop County
Bastrop County Fire is 24 miles long an 20 miles wild and uncontained
90 new fires reported in the last 2 days
32,000 acres burning
3.2 million acres scorched in fires since November

Personal stories of single mothers with children, elderly, families, and the sick and invalid being forced to flee their homes with none of their belongings have become commonplace, and to the dismay of Governer Perry, the fires show no signs of slowing down. Tropical Storm lee brought heavy winds which only assisted in feeding and spreading the flames.

The American Red Cross is asking for donations to help. We support the charitable effort. Go here for more information: American Red Cross




Posted by
GlobeAwake


at
1:35 PM

















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz






Labels:
human interest,
news






Reactions: 











0
comments:
        








Post a Comment































Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)






























Recent Posts
















Categories



19
(1)


21
(1)


Adele
(1)


amy
(1)


awake
(1)


billboard
(1)


celebrity
(1)


culture
(1)


culture corner
(2)


deep
(1)


globe
(1)


gossip
(5)


human interest
(12)


humor
(1)


in
(1)


lifestyle
(1)


little dragon
(1)


music
(9)


news
(33)


opinion
(8)


pop
(1)


rolling
(1)


the
(1)


winehouse
(1)






























Tweet














    
      GLOBE AWAKE
    
    
       











Pages


Home
Legal, Copyright, Privacy












Follow by Email






























Popular Posts









Artist of the Day: Beyonce Knowles
    In honor of her amazing tribute to the victims of 9/11, and her unbelievably big heart, we couldn't help but make Beyonce our artist for...










Get the perfect body and maintain it during the lazy winter season!
    Staying in shape is one of the obsessions of most people in America. Everybody wants a beautiful body. Women want to be slim and in-shap...





Shocker! Jackie Kennedy Onassis didn't like Martin Luther King!
            video platform video management video solutions video player    Beloved Former First Lady & style trendsetter Jackie Kennedy-Ona...










AWWWWW! Photos of Bow Wow's adorable daughter!
  It wasn't that long ago that Bow Wow was Lil Bow Wow, the precocious, pint-sized rapper that made little girls everywhere swoon with his J...










Breaking the Stereotype of Male-Female Violence: Teyana Taylor's Bloody Fighting
 Singer/actress Teyana Taylor got into a violent row with Jean-Claude La Marre. the producer of her new film, Gang of Roses 2. What's worse:...





Glimpse into Tony Bennett & Amy Winehouse's Recording Session
Sony Music Poland has offered us a even better glimpse of the upcoming Tony Bennett and Amy Winehouse duet, which the world is eagerly await...





BREAKING NEWS! 1.4 million customers out of power in San Diego!
1.4 million people are out of power in San Diego, after a widespread power outtage has affected the entire San Diego and Orange County area....










Chicago's Black Population Leaving & Soul Food Restaurants Closing
  In the past 10 years, Chicago has lost more than 17 percent of it's Black Population, a huge decline in a city which once had a general po...





TRAGIC! 9th grader's throat slit during school rally! High School on Lock down!
NBC4i  news reports that West  High School, located on 179 S. Powell Ave. in Columbus, Ohio went into Level 2 lockdown after one student sli...





Family doesn't want pictures of whale-trainers death released
Dawn Brancheau was a Seaworld Orlando trainer who was attacked by killer whale Tilikum, during a show on February 24, 2010. The  Orlando Sen...















Search This Blog


Loading...













































Web Toolbar by Wibiya





























2011 Globe Awake Media, LLC.. Powered by Blogger.
































