 September 2011 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






New dolphin species discovered in Australia
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Animals
Researchers in Australia have discovered that dolphin colonies living around Melbourne are a species unlike any other in the world, they revealed on Thursday. The dolphins that frolic in Port Phillip Bay and the Gippsland Lakes, numbering around 150, were originally thought to be one of the two recognised bottlenose species.


Comment



APEC calls for safe, sustainable transportation
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Fuel, Global Warning, Transportation
SAN FRANCISCO (Xinhua) — Transportation ministers from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies pledged here Wednesday to continue working toward a safe, secure, seamless and sustainable transportation system.


Comment



Central China earthquake affects 60,000 people
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Global Warning
WUHAN (Xinhua) — A total of 60,000 people in central China’s Hubei Province have been affected by last Saturday’s 4.6-magnitude earthquake which hit the border area between Jiangxi and Hubei provinces, according to the provincial civil affairs department.


Comment



6.0-magnitude quake hits east of North Island, New Zealand
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Global Warning
WELLINGTON (Xinhua) — An earthquake measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale jolted east of the North Island of New Zealand at 07:53 GMT on Thursday, the U.S. Geological Survey said.


Comment



6.2-magnitude quake hits sea off Japan’s Honshu
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Global Warning
BEIJING, (Xinhua) — An earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale jolted the sea off the east coast of Honshu of Japan at 4:00 p.m. Beijing Time on Thursday, said the China Earthquake Networks Center. The epicenter, with a depth of 60 km, was determined to be at 36.3 degrees north latitude and 141.6 degrees [...]


Comment



6.0-magnitude quake hits Cuba region
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Global Warning
WASHINGTON (Xinhua) — An earthquake measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale jolted Cuba region on Thursday, the U.S. Geological Survey said. The epicenter, with a depth of 10.00 km, was initially determined to be at 19.5739 degrees north latitude and 78.0220 degrees west longitude.


Comment



Al Gore: climate science “reality” versus Republicans
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
By Deborah Zabarenko, Environment Correspondent WASHINGTON | Wed Sep 14, 2011 4:00pm EDT WASHINGTON (Reuters) – For Al Gore, the choice is obvious: Either accept scientific reality about climate change or believe what the fossil fuel industry is paying some Republican candidates to say. Article source: Source


Comment



U.S. blames BP for Gulf spill
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News
By Ayesha Rascoe and Anna Driver WASHINGTON/HOUSTON | Wed Sep 14, 2011 7:40pm EDT WASHINGTON/HOUSTON (Reuters) – The United States heaped the lion’s share of blame for the country’s biggest ever offshore oil spill on BP on Wednesday as the government issued its final assessment of last year’s Gulf disaster. Article source: Source


Comment



APEC members chart routes to greener transport
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Fuel, Transportation
by Mao Lei, Wang Jun SAN FRANCSICO (Xinhua) — Highest-level transportation and energy officials from 21 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies held new rounds of meetings in San Francisco on Tuesday and Wednesday, seeking to further mobilize technologies, tools and policies to drive the region to a greener transport future.


Comment



6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, Alaska
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 15 under Climate Change, Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News, Global Warning
BEIJING (Xinhua) — An earthquake measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale jolted Aleutian Islands, Alaska at 2:10 a.m. Beijing Time on Thursday, according to the China Earthquake Networks Center.


Comment



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


consumers
tropical storm lee
organic cotton
climate change
global warning
Eco-friendly
national hurricane center
recycled materials
green
lifestyle
prnewswire
pr newswire
earthquake
carbon footprint
barack obama
hurricane irene
mother earth
clothes
reuters
epicenter
environment
earth
ecofriendly
saving energy
Recycling
money
global warming
richter scale
eco
christmas
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterwood deckseco calendarPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




