Wilfire in Texas claimed two lives and burned thousands of homes                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Wilfire in Texas claimed two lives and burned thousands of homes     Austin :  TX :  USA
| Sep 06, 2011
 
By Mary Grace Keiner            1 0      
Views: 192
          Texas still suffering from drought and now deadly wildfires erupted over the holiday weekend. Fast moving wildfire claimed two lives and burned hundreds of homes close to Austin. “The houses that were in its path on this particular roadway were taken out,” Gregg County Sheriff Maxey Cerliano said. “There were many other houses that the fire got right up to the porch.” Estimated 1,400 acres were burned in the area alone, leaving thousands of resident homeless, their cars and barns turned into dust. “We’ve completely depleted our resources,” Melanie Spradling, a public information officer with the Texas Forest Service, told the Tyler Morning Telegraph. “We’re on every fire we can possibly handle and then some.” So far in 2011, 7.2 million acres of grass, scrub and forest have burned in wildfires nationwide. Of those, 3.5 million -- nearly half -- have been in Texas, according to Inciweb.        1 of 27        
Wilfire in Texas claimed two lives and burned thousands of homes
     
Mary Grace Keiner is based in Lake Mills, Wisconsin, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (63.0%) Canada (19.2%) Portugal (8.2%) United Kingdom (4.8%) 5 other countries (2.7%)           READ MORE: wildfire, texas, fire in Texas, wildfires, forest, Forest Service, Fires, people, Storm Lee, fire   More News From: Austin :  TX :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                   Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Wildfires rage across Texas for the 296th day! By: AmberCornelio      
Wildfires have been burning across the US state of Texas for
the 296th day, claiming over 1,000 homes in the process.  Recent fires have been fueled by the howling
winds brought on by nearby Tropical Storm Lee. 
The largest fire is reportedly near Austin and has spread
over some 33,000 acres and claimed two lives, forcing the ...  8 days ago     Texas fires claim the lives of four people By: kingston23      Forest fires raging in Texas, have already killed four people and destroyed more than a thousand homes, most in recent days.The governor, Rick Perry, who interrupted his campaign for the presidential nomination by the Republican party, described the fire as a monster and said the situation is critical.Texas has become a tinderbox after the worst ...  8 days ago     More than 1,000 homes destroyed by fires in Texas By: kingston23      Forest fires burning in the state of Texas, have destroyed more than 1,000 homes in recent days. Gov. Rick Perry, who interrupted his campaign to the Republican primaries to come to see the damage, described the fire as a "monster" and said the situation was very critical. Texas lives its worst drought in half a century and in recent days, strong ...  8 days ago     Bastrop Texas wildfire update By: mahlina       
Bastrop, Texas wildfire has destroyed almost 600 homes, setting a record for the highest number of homes lost in a single fire in Texas history. Firefighters are trying to bring the wind-fueled wildfire under control that has consumed more than 25, 000 acres of land and forced approximately 5,000 people to evacuate.
According to recent ...  8 days ago     (Photos) Texas Wildfire Devastation - Thousands of homes destroyed  By: kalex      Texas Wildfire Devastation seems not stopping and already Thousands of homes been destroyed and people been evacuated from the places.According to the Texas Forest Service about  600 houses been burned and destroyed in Bastrop County which is near Austin.
Helicopters and small planes been employed apart from firefighters to provide ...  8 days ago     Wild Fire in Texas damages 300 houses By: zeest      A huge wildfire broke out in central Texas on Monday, burning atleast 300 houses. The fire was fanned by dry winds untill it converted the houses into ashes.
Mr. Mark Stanford, the fire chief of Texas forest Service, remarked that "It's catastrophic. Its a major natural disaster."
Fire fighters continued to struggle against the huge catastrophe ...  8 days ago     Austin-area wildfire burns a record 476 residences in Texas By: aalees      
A huge wildfire east of the Texas
state capital of Austin
has destroyed 476 homes since Sunday and is still ablaze out of control.
 
"I'm still seeing no containment," said April Saginor,
public information officer for the Texas Forest Service, who confirmed that the
Bastrop County Complex Fire has scorched more than 25,000 acres and ...  8 days ago     Texas wildfire destroys more than 500 homes By: jaded87      
A violent wildfire triggered in a barren farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday and went unchecked. The wildfire ended up destroying almost 500 homes as it spread rapidly across the area.
The wildfire was further instigated by the howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee that fanned the fire even more.
According to ...  9 days ago     HUGE WILDFIRE DESTROYS 300 HOMES IN CENTRAL TEXAS By: MuhammadSabir      In the United States, a huge wildfire has destroyed at least 300 homes in Central Texas.
In a statement in Washington, Fire Chief of the Texas Forest Service, Mark Stanford described the incident as a catastrophic and a major natural disaster.  9 days ago     Texas Battles 'Monster' Wildfire By: khattar      Texas which was already facing a worst drought of the century are now hit with another calamity. This time its wildfires which according to a rough estimates the fire has erupted at no less than 63 places since Sunday.
The fire fighters face an uphill task to battle the wildfires in Texas which has spread over a 26 KM wide-line and has already ...  9 days ago     Forest fires raging in Texas  By: taophuyen      Intense fires in 40 years is spreading with rapid speed in the central state of Texas, destroying at least 500 homes. The strong wind storm debris from Texas, and Lee has to go through a long drought has contributed to the fire flared up and spread quickly over hilly terrain, burning pine and cedar , as well as the farms in the area.&...  9 days ago     Hundreds Of Family and Their Houses Affected Of Wildfire In Texas By: jamespabalan      A fast moving wildfire is disturbing hundreds of family and their houses in Texas. Authorities has forced thousands of people to evacuate from their homes. 
Strong winds was the reason for fast wide spread of fire, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out properties. Huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over that ...  9 days ago     Natural fires tear sun-scorched Texas By: kensai      
 
Bastrop, Texas (AP) - Firefighters south of Austin, Texas, faced strong winds Monday as they struggled to gain ground against a forest fire in rapid evolution that has so far burned about 25,000 acres and destroyed nearly 500 homes.
 
Another fire in East Texas killed a mother and her 18-month-old child when the flames engulfed ...  9 days ago     Two dead, 1000 homes burned, updates (Video) By: StephEaly      Update:  
UTC (GMT) Tuesday, September 6, 2011 at 20:25:00
With well over 1,000 homes burned in the drought sun-scorched Texas, residents near the Austin area can only wait and hope their home wasn't one of them Tuesday.  
Now CBS is reporting that over 57 wildfires   9 days ago     Half of Bastrop State Park burned By: aniskhan26       
ome Texas Parks and Wildlife Department employees have been evacuated from the command post at Bastrop State Park.
Fires across Central Texas propelled partly by the high winds caused by Tropical Storm Lee burned thousands of acres. The entire state is under a red flag warning due to the fire danger.
Nearly half of the Bastrop State Park ...  9 days ago     Fierce Texas wildfire destroys almost 350 homes! By: darjee      An horrible wildfire southeast of Texas, destroyed alomost 350 homes, scorched severals of acres and stretched across a 18 mile area Monday morning.
Another blaze in eastern Texas killed a mother and her 18-month old child when flames burnt their mobile small home Sunday near Gladewater, the Gregg County Sheriff's Dept said.
Officials said low ...  9 days ago     Texas wildfire torches 300 homes By: Samantha86      
A major wildfire in Texas is causing property and
human life damage and there seems to be no end to the devastation at the moment
Texas waits for rain impatiently, as the
drought-stricken state is now faced with an even bigger danger of fire. A
fast-growing wildfire is spreading across Texas, fanned by winds from the
Tropical Storm Lee. ...  10 days ago     Tx. Wildfire Scorches Homes, Acres By: junaid1990      Wildfires sweeping through parts of Texas and Oklahoma have destroyed dozens of homes and forced hundreds of people to evacuate. Investigators don't yet know what ignited the blazes.
A very bad incident occured in Texas. Wildfires hit many places of Texas and Oklahoma. Many houses were completely destroyed. People were evacuate from these places. ...  14 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Texas Wildfires: Tropical Storm Lee Brings Texas a Perfect Storm  
International Business Times
 Topics IBTimes Today's Headline Most important and popular Headlines Sample The Texas Forest Service confirmed 63 separate wildfires, 22 of them large. The two casualties were a 20-year-old woman and her 18-month-old daughter living in a mobile home...    Wildfire Threatens Buildings in Texas, Oklahoma (PHOTOS)  
International Business Times
 EDT Wildfires continued raging through Texas and Oklahoma Monday, threatening homes and buildings. Thousands of acres of dry land were charred in the fire which started last Tuesday. Sixty separate wildfires, whipped by strong winds, were burning...    Texas wildfires: More than 1,000 homes lost, thousands evacuated  
Los Angeles Times
 With seemingly no end to the flames in sight, more than 5,000 residents were evacuated from the most-threatened areas. Gov. Rick Perry told CBS that he hopes that today's forecast calling for cooler temperatures and slowing winds would help...    Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week  
Denver Post
 TexasMore than 1,000 homes have burned in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze close to Austin that's still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday. Speaking at a news conference near one of the...    Texas wildfires: Thousands flee as 2 killed and 500 homes destroyed  
Mail Online UK
 Thousands flee 'monster' Texas wildfires which kill two and destroy 5,000 homes Last updated at 10:58 AM on 6th September 2011 Hundreds of families have been left homeless after a wind-fueled wildfire swept through Central Texas.    “Monster” Wildfires Devour Texas: 500 Homes Destroyed in Bastrop [...  
International Business Times
 Text Size A cloud of smoke rises from a wildfire as it burns out of control near Bastrop Firefighters tried to contain a raging wildfire that engulfed thousands of acres of drought-stricken areas of Texas Monday. The wildfire devoured hundreds of...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Wildfire in Texas    Wildfire in Texas Image Source: allvoices Wilfire in Texas claimed two lives and burned thousands of homes        More than 13,000 wildfires ...    More than 13,000 wildfires ... Image Source: www.afp.com More than 13,000 wildfires have burned more than 3.2 million acres in ...        Extreme heat rises from the ...    Extreme heat rises from the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Extreme heat rises from the ground as flames burn around the entrance to a ...        Smoke billows from behind a ...    Smoke billows from behind a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Smoke billows from behind a development of homes as a wildfire burns near ...        A fallen tree burns after a ...    A fallen tree burns after a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A fallen tree burns after a fire swept through Bastrop State Park as ...        A log burns after a fire swept ...    A log burns after a fire swept ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A log burns after a fire swept through Bastrop State Park as wildfires burn ...      More Related Images    More From Austin          The Texas Health Care System        Men More Apt To Forgive Lesbian Affair        Progress and frustrations in historic Texas wildfire        Rick Perry Shorts Fire Fighters          Texas wildfires engulf more than 1000 homes        Rick Perry, Faces The Test Of Leadership In Real Time With Wildfires In Texas         Several killed in forest fires in Texas         Texas does not get a grip on bushfires           Aftermath of Tropical Storm Lee        Thousands Evacuated as Wildfire Destroys More Than 1,000 Homes in Texas.        Videos: Massive Wildfires continue to sweep acrossTexas        Rick Perry and The Tea Party A Threat To The Constitution          1000 dwelling destroyed in fires                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10260567          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 12 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 17       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 9       Images: 30       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10260567), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10260567 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10260567 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Wilfire in Texas claimed two lives and burned thousands of homes ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10260567-wilfire-in-texas-claimed-two-lives-and-burned-thousands-of-homes.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         