Conservative Daily News: The Top Source for American Conservative Political News



















Home
2012 Election News
Politics
Opinion
Videos
Political Cartoons
CDNews Radio

Mitchell and Ray
The Dark Side


Reader Polls
Advertise
About

Contact Us
Subscribe to Newsletter
Privacy Policy


Write for CDN


In The News
States’ News
9-11 Remembered
Conservative Philosophy

Conservative Book Club


Support Our Troops
A Broken System

Education
Foster Care
Immigration
Public Sector Unions


Blogs

Allenah Manzanagrano
Michelle Ray
Rich Mitchell
SmalGov


CDN Staff












Lead Article
Most Read




 
Featured


      Solyndra Loans – What Did the WH Know and When?      
The $535 (or $528) million Loan Obama administration officials defended a $528 million loan to Solyndra, but stated that federal investment in alternative energy must continue.  [emphasis mine] The Obama administration stood by Solyndra, through auditors warned to not risk an initial public offering and a refinancing where taxpayers were behind new investors. A day before[continue reading...]



Most Popular Posts at CDN: 
CNN/Tea Party Express Debate:Gardasil, Social Security & the Rise of the Tea Party Pass the Pork Everything In Life Is A Choice TPX/CNN GOP Debate: The Good, The Bad and the Ugly American Jobs Act [Full Text] Breaking! Obama Responds to Bob Turner Winning NY-9 Democratic Attack Machine Files False Ethics Charges Against Darrell Issa DNC Launches Ad Campaign To Promote Jobs Bill Erring On The Side Of Life GOP Debate Moves From Ponzi Scheme To Vaccinations Turner takes the Weiner seat GOP Wins Special Elections in N.Y. and Nevada  










Political Cartoons



 

                                      Repeating History                                      
A.F. Branco



 

                                      Pass the Pork                                      
A.F. Branco


 


Politics


 

      B.I.A.- One of the Oldest Government Bullies      
Benjamin Wallace
  The Bureau of Indian Affairs was the biggest bully created by the government until the creation of the IRS. The BIA hasn’t been in the news much in recent history but that could change with one of their latest initiatives. The BIA has told the Cherokee Nation that they must let descendants of some[continue reading...]


 

      Solyndra Loans – What Did the WH Know and When?      
Warren Beatty (not the liberal actor)
The $535 (or $528) million Loan Obama administration officials defended a $528 million loan to Solyndra, but stated that federal investment in alternative energy must continue.  [emphasis mine] The Obama administration stood by Solyndra, through auditors warned to not risk an initial public offering and a refinancing where taxpayers were behind new investors. A day before[continue reading...]


 

      Attaaaackkkk Waatttcchhhh! Snitches Dig Ditches      
Kira Davis
Yesterday the Obama Twitter team proudly tweeted the creation of the pro-Obama defensive website, Attackwatch.com . Immediately the Twittersphere exploded with the use of the hashtag #AttackWatch, but most likely not in the way the Obama team had hoped.  The poorly designed Attack Watch website bills itself as a site to counter “right wing” attacks[continue reading...]




      Another Obama Attack Website      
Erin Haust
Soros funded liberal White House front group, Obama for America, previously known as Organizing for America, sent a solicitation email yesterday rallying the progressive troops to “turn in” their friends and neighbors when they hear something negative about President Obama’s record. Asking recipients to “become part of one of our most important teams” and “fight[continue reading...]


 

      Democratic Attack Machine Files False Ethics Charges Against Darrell Issa      
DJ Redman
As we draw nearer to the 2012 elections, we see some new and some various retreads of old front groups for the Democratic Attack Machine popping up on a weekly basis. The latest group of far left Liberal propagandists to crawl out of the swamp today is in the form of the cutesy sounding progressive political activist group, American Family Voices.[continue reading...]


 

      Hands Up Peter!  Paul Needs Some Cash!      
Brian Cook
 Watching the President give his best campaign speech of the 2012 election cycle, that same old adage kept rolling over again in my mind.  The concept that you pay off one bill by way of another is tantamount to one paying his student loans off with a credit card and thinking he just made a[continue reading...]


 

      DNC Launches Ad Campaign To Promote Jobs Bill      
Warren Beatty (not the liberal actor)
DNC Launches Ad Campaign The Democrat National Committee (DNC) is launching an advertising campaign in politically key states and cities aimed at getting the public behind President Barack Obama’s new jobs plan. In a 33 minute speech delivered to a joint session of Congress on September 8, 2011, President Barack Obama repeated the phrase “Pass[continue reading...]


 

      American Jobs Act [Full Text]      
Ryan Craig
The White House finally posted the American Jobs Act of 2011. At 155 pages, it is considerably smaller than major Democrat-sponsored legislation that has cropped up in the past few years and should be easy enough to get through. Incidentally, the web site that was set up for the bill, which was spotlighted in a previous[continue reading...]


 

      TPX/CNN GOP Debate: The Good, The Bad and the Ugly      
DJ Redman
Last night in Tampa Florida, The Teaparty Express/CNN GOP Presidential debate was held at the Florida State fairgrounds. The weather was quite nice for the event, although temperatures were in the 90′s for most of the day. Florida is also considered to be a very important swing state that could decide just who will become[continue reading...]






Conservative Sites to Visit
Big Dawg Music Mafia
Comically Incorrect
Conservative Blogs Central
Conservative News Central
Conservative's Forum
Hosier Access
Loyal to Liberty
Noisy Room
Righting Our Consent
Tax Tips for Democrats
Texas Fred
Typical Shooter
Truth About Bills
 



Videos





                                      Breaking! Obama Responds to Bob Turner Winning NY-9                                      



 




                                      September 12th CNN/Tea Party Express GOP Debate [Video]                                      



 

 
 









In The News


      Glenn Beck Comes Out Swinging with  New GBTV Show            
DJ Redman
Glenn Beck is back on the airwaves as promised, as this week he launched GBTV. The first show was broadcast across his internet TV channel as America was revisiting the 911 Muslim terrorist attacks on America in memorials across the nation. Beck’s first target was President Obama’s fake jobs bill and our economy. THE TRUTH[continue reading...]
 
      GOP Wins Special Elections in N.Y. and Nevada            
DJ Redman
Last night in a special election vote for the disgraced N.Y. Democrat Anthony Weiner’s House seat, retired broadcast executive and political novice Bob Turner (R) beat N.Y. State assemblyman David Weprin.(D) Not only did a Republican take this seat for the first time since 1922,  NY-09 is a district where registered Democrats have a 3-1[continue reading...]




Opinion

 
      Everything In Life Is A Choice            
Allenah Manzanagrano
After the CNN/Tea Party debate in Florida, Wolf Blitzer interviewed Michele Bachmann one-on-one, and asked her specifically about the HPV vaccination issue that became one of the main topics during the debate. One statement Congresswoman Bachmann made in her response was: A little girl doesn’t get a do-over once she gets the vaccination. While this[continue reading...]
 
      Erring On The Side Of Life            
Allenah Manzanagrano
During the CNN/Tea Party debate in Florida, one topic in particular became the focal point of attack on Texas Governor Rick Perry. Congresswoman Bachmann, in particular, went on the offensive against Governor Perry on this issue. While Governor Perry said that his decision had been wrong, and he would not make the same decision again,[continue reading...]




The Economy


      Greece’s Departure From the Euro Seems Inevitable            
PRNewswire
NEW YORK, Sept. 14, 2011 /PRNewswire/ — Removing Greece from the eurozone might be the best solution to ending the uncertainty and volatility in the European markets and would remove one of the biggest hurdles impeding an economic recovery in Europe, according to a white paper from Newton*, theLondon-based global asset manager that is part of BNY Mellon Asset Management.[continue reading...]

      Fannie Mae Redemption            
PRNewswire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 12, 2011 /PRNewswire/ — Fannie Mae (OTC Bulletin Board: FNMA) will redeem the principal amounts indicated for the following securities issues on the redemption dates indicated below at a redemption price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption: Principal Amount Security Type Interest Rate[continue reading...]




Humor

 
      Christianity Split; Dogs and Rocks Caught in Cross-Fire            
Rich Mitchell
It is nearly impossible to expect even the best of friends to agree on everything. Actually, some of the most enlightening conversations are held when to people who respect each other disagree. While most conversations and many debates never create catastrophic collateral damage, the odd venue and humorous tone of the following debate may affect[continue reading...]
 
      Lemonade Concessioneers to Unionize Due to ‘Big Mean Government’            
Rich Mitchell
Young lemonade stand owners across America have been the subject of government witch hunts for the last few months. Local governments have been shutting down stands owned by children trying to make a little extra summer cash to pay for pet food, toys and trips to amusement parks. The government crack-down has all but dashed[continue reading...]




Blogs

 
      Space, The Final Frontier            
Eleanor R. Infantino
I am old enough to remember the USSR putting the first capsule into orbit and the underlying panic that ensued in America because no one wanted our enemy to have an advantage over us militarily. Space became the High Ground and it had to be obtained and held to have the upper hand over our[continue reading...]
 
      (Tea) Party People!! The CNN Dating Game Redux            
Michelle Ray
CNN did it again! The Tea Party Express was apparently powerless to stop CNN from committing the horror of hosting The Dating Game II this evening as a thinly veiled attempt to gain viewership. I endure this pain for you, all twelve of my regular post readers! The #CNNTeaparty hashtag on Twitter was, as usual,[continue reading...]







 











          B.I.A.- One of the Oldest Government Bullies          

          Solyndra Loans – What Did the WH Know and When?          

          Glenn Beck Comes Out Swinging with  New GBTV Show          

          Attaaaackkkk Waatttcchhhh! Snitches Dig Ditches          

          Another Obama Attack Website          


 Subscribe to the CDNews Feed
CDNews: The Best News, Right Now 

CDNews Weekly Reader Poll
Who's To Blame for the Mortgage Mess [Can Select More than One)
Progressive Housing Policy (67%)
FHA - Fanie and Freddie (54%)
Banks (32%)
Sub-prime borrowers (31%)
George W. Bush (14%)
I'm not sure (1%)


 Loading ...
Polls ArchiveFind Us on Facebook 


Advertise HERE!! 


Recent Comments

WillofLa { Mark Levin played the recording of that girl who worked for the construction company who was building this company and she said that Obama came... } –  Sep 15, 12:22 AM
WillofLa { Okay, now I'm going to be trivial here. So where is the money? Did Mr. Kaiser take it as money he can give Obama for... } –  Sep 14, 6:44 PM
Erin Haust { LOL! You should see what the Twittersphere has to say. Search the hashtag #AttackWatch and prepare to laugh out loud! } –  Sep 14, 3:29 PM
Allenah Manzanagrano (twitter: @FreedomsBlsings) { So Max, let me guess.... you don't like Herman Cain, right? HERMAN CAIN: "America has got to learn how to take a joke." } –  Sep 14, 2:30 PM

The Best in Conservative Political News 


Subscribe to CDNs Regular NewsletterFill out the form below to signup for the Conservative Daily News newsletter and we'll drop you a line as new articles come up.


Our strict privacy policy keeps your email address 100% safe & secure.G-Lock opt-in manager for newsletter mailing softwareArchives  Select Month  September 2011  (165)
 August 2011  (264)
 July 2011  (147)
 June 2011  (174)
 May 2011  (209)
 April 2011  (97)
 March 2011  (108)
 February 2011  (67)
 January 2011  (42)
 December 2010  (9)
 November 2010  (32)
 October 2010  (79)
 September 2010  (51)
 August 2010  (55)
 July 2010  (32)
 June 2010  (22)
 May 2010  (15)
 April 2010  (6)
 March 2010  (18)
 February 2010  (5)
 January 2010  (17)
 December 2009  (3)
 November 2009  (23)
 October 2009  (42)
 September 2009  (44)
 August 2009  (4)

 




































 © 2009 - 2011
    Conservative Daily News

    | Conservative Daily News is a property of Anomalous Media LLC

Log in
    |

    Register |
    160 queries.

    6.190
    seconds. 





