Bastrop one of the worst wildfires in Texan history













AustinGlobe.com
Thursday 15th September 2011
Edition 258/9


 
 
Follow us on 







More Austin NewsCruise ship fire strikes historic Norwegian line
Family of Mississippi hate crime victim oppose death penalty
Long running Belgian political crisis may be near end
UK PM Cameron and French President Sarkozy visit Libya
Church of Scientology in Australia accused of worker neglect
Jackie Kennedy tapes on JFK and world leaders revealed
Rogue trader who cost UBS $2 billion arrested in London
China reiterates offer to buy European bonds
ECB and UK government to face off in court over banking law
White House on the defensive over loan to now bankrupt solar energy firm
US stocks extend gains to third day
Social Currency Systems Emerge to Supplement Money in Argentina


Get Austin News headlines emailed to you daily.       






Bastrop one of the worst wildfires in Texan history
Austin GlobeWednesday 7th September, 2011  
  •  1,000 homes have been destroyed and at least 4 people killed  •  Bastrop is one of the worst wildfires in the history of Texas  •  Federal grants have been issued by US President Obama and several US states have sent fire crews and aircraft
A wildfire in Bastrop State Park in Texas is quickly turning into one of the worst in the state’s history, killing several people and destroying 1,000 homes.

State fire-fighting services in Texas are stretched to their limit battling the blaze, which has grown in size, killing 4 people and burning hundreds of homes in a single day.

The Bastrop fire has been fuelled by strong winds from Tropical Storm Lee in the Gulf of Mexico over the weekend, whipping the runaway blaze into a frenzy.

Texas, suffering through a severe drought, has been hit by more than 180 separate wildfires in the past week alone, prompting the White House to release federal funds for emergency disaster management and recovery.

“The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning,” said Texas Governor Rick Perry, who has suspended presidential campaigning to deal with the crisis. It is unclear whether the Republican hopeful will be able to attend an upcoming Republican presidential debate in California.

Perry said Tuesday that he expects further federal support for Texans whose homes have been destroyed.

White House spokesperson Jay Carney said the White House would “continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials in their efforts to contain these fires”, adding that US President Obama had approved seven federal grants to Texas in the wake of the latest wildfire outbreaks.

Perry has criticised federal red tape that prevents the military being able to use its own heavy equipment to help state officials fight the fires. Perry was referring to bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood base, 75 miles from Bastrop.

“When you’ve got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don’t care who the asset belongs to,” said Governor Perry. “If it’s sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that’s a problem.”

Fort Hood has been fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze, although that wildfire is much smaller than the Bastrop inferno.

Texas put out a call for help in fighting its wildfires and the federal government has sent heavy tanker planes and aircraft capable of scooping water from lakes. Other states have also responded to the call, sending aircraft and fire crews.

The Bastrop fire is now being fought by around 1,200 fire-fighters, their ranks swelled by the addition of fire crews from Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon.

“We’re getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies,” said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.




Tweet
















Share this page







  Email this story to a friend

Have your say on this story



Your nickname
 (required)


Message































Home
News Releases
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Site Map

copyright© Midwest Radio Network Ltd 2002 - 2011. All rights reserved






