FOX 10 News | Phoenix Metro Area News, Weather, Traffic and Sports




Mobile News
MyFOXCam
MyDatingPlace
FOX 10 Events
Search


Site
                    



                       Web
                    

Business
                    











  



Live VideoFOX 10 Arizona Morning






Submit Photos
Job Shop  
Contests
Contact Us
C.More My45
TV Listings
E-Mail Alerts
XFactor





Home
News




News
Local
National




FoxNews





World




SkyNews





Politics




National
State Politics
Polls
Newsmaker Sun.
FOX News Sun.





Investigative
Elections
Crime


Justice
AZ Most Wanted
Money
Market Watch
Business
WSJ Headlines
Recalls
Consumers


Education
OffBeat
Sci Tech
War Room
Faith
Only on Fox
Pets
Immigration


Housing Market
Gas Prices
FOX E
Must Read
Had Enough
RSS Feeds





Morning Show
Weather
Sports




Sports
NFL




Cardinals





MLB




Diamondbacks





Super Bowl
NCAABasketball
NCAA Football
NBA




Suns





WNBA


NHL




Coyotes





Golf
Auto Racing




NASCAR





Soccer
Sun Devils
Lumberjacks
Wildcats
High School





Traffic
Health
Entertainment




Entertainment
Music
Movies
Television
Celebrity News
TMZ
Family Fun
Dogs


Cats
Online Family
Your Baby
Travel
Lottery
Healthy Living
Spark
Green Simple


Style
Style Tech
FOX Shop
Girl World
Driving
Geek Weekly
Features
TV Guide


Station Sched
American Idol
FOX on Demand





About Us




About Us
History
EEO Reports
Advertise
Sales
News Team
Work for Us
Contact Us


FAQ
FCC Form 398
Site Map
Captioning
Terms Service
Privacy Policy





Seen on TV




Seen on TV
Links
Live Video 1
Live Video 2
FOX 10 Events
Newscast Dubs
MyDating Place
Twitter


Facebook
Daily Deal
Text Alerts





Dating






Home : 




  


Mysterious Light Flashes Across Sky










Top Stories


          Mitt Romney Campaigns in AZ Michele Bachmann Campaigns in AZ Military Son Buys Home for Parents Hilarious Video of Webcam Antics 11 Arrests in Shoplifting Ring   Talks to FOX 10 One-on-One Meets with Sheriff Joe, ReportersChildhood Home was Lost to Foreclosure  Called Webcam 101 for Seniors$80,000 in Merchandise Stolen 














Arizona
National
World
Politics
Must Read


◄
Pause
►









Sheryl Cuevas, extreme couponer 

Extreme Couponer Reveals Her StrategyEveryone is trying to save these days, especially at the grocery store. While some of us may quickly scan for coupons right before a trip to the grocery store, some have taken it to an incredible level.


Extreme Couponer Reveals Her StrategyEveryone is trying to save these days, especially at the grocery store. While some of us may quickly scan for coupons right before a trip to the grocery store, some have taken it to an incredible level.
Extreme Couponer Reveals Her StrategyEveryone is trying to save these days, especially at the grocery store. While some of us may quickly scan for coupons right before a trip to the grocery store, some have taken it to an incredible level.

Had Enough - 9/14Have you Had Enough? Rick D'Amico sounds off on big government and all the reports of child abuse.
Had Enough - 9/14Have you Had Enough? Rick D'Amico sounds off on big government and all the reports of child abuse.

Hand Doctor on Trial for Assaulting…Dr. Michael Brown of the Brown Hand Center, accused of beating his wife, is currently on trial for the assault.
Hand Doctor on Trial for Assaulting…Dr. Michael Brown of the Brown Hand Center, accused of beating his wife, is currently on trial for the assault.



Extreme Couponer Reveals Her Strategy


Had Enough - 9/14


Hand Doctor on Trial for Assaulting…

More Arizona»









 

Human Remains Found in Search for MomAuthorities were preparing Thursday to excavate remains found during a search for missing Utah mother Susan Powell in a remote area of the state.


Human Remains Found in Search for MomAuthorities were preparing Thursday to excavate remains found during a search for missing Utah mother Susan Powell in a remote area of the state.
Human Remains Found in Search for MomAuthorities were preparing Thursday to excavate remains found during a search for missing Utah mother Susan Powell in a remote area of the state.

Scaffolding Collapse Reportedly…The nation's busiest border crossing has reopened 13 of 24 vehicle lanes after scaffolding collapsed a day earlier, halting all U.S.-bound traffic.

Suspect Tells Court 'Usama Is Alive' in…
Pennsylvania Mom Who Lost Job After…
Wrongfully Imprisoned Man Fulfills Another…Scaffolding Collapse Reportedly…The nation's busiest border crossing has reopened 13 of 24 vehicle lanes after scaffolding collapsed a day earlier, halting all U.S.-bound traffic.

Obama, Heroic Marine Share a BeerUS war hero Dakota Meyer will receive the Medal of Honor on Thursday -- but ahead of that solemn occasion what he really wanted was a casual conversation over a beer with President Barack Obama.
Obama, Heroic Marine Share a BeerUS war hero Dakota Meyer will receive the Medal of Honor on Thursday -- but ahead of that solemn occasion what he really wanted was a casual conversation over a beer with President Barack Obama.



Human Remains Found in Search for Mom
7 min ago

Scaffolding Collapse Reportedly…

Obama, Heroic Marine Share a Beer
More Nat'l»









 

Britons Arrest Stockholm Bomber's WifeBritish police said Wednesday they had arrested the wife of a man who carried out a suicide bombing in Sweden last December on suspicion of carrying out preparatory acts for a terrorist attack.


Britons Arrest Stockholm Bomber's WifeBritish police said Wednesday they had arrested the wife of a man who carried out a suicide bombing in Sweden last December on suspicion of carrying out preparatory acts for a terrorist attack.
Britons Arrest Stockholm Bomber's WifeBritish police said Wednesday they had arrested the wife of a man who carried out a suicide bombing in Sweden last December on suspicion of carrying out preparatory acts for a terrorist attack.

Wife of Christmas Bomber ArrestedThe wife of the suicide bomber who targeted Christmas shoppers in Stockholm has been arrested by police in Britain.  
Wife of Christmas Bomber ArrestedThe wife of the suicide bomber who targeted Christmas shoppers in Stockholm has been arrested by police in Britain.  

Survey: Asia More Important than EuropeAmericans increasingly view Asia, not Europe, as the region where the most important U.S. national interests lie. That was a finding of a poll released Wednesday.
Survey: Asia More Important than EuropeAmericans increasingly view Asia, not Europe, as the region where the most important U.S. national interests lie. That was a finding of a poll released Wednesday.



Britons Arrest Stockholm Bomber's Wife

Wife of Christmas Bomber Arrested

Survey: Asia More Important than Europe
More World»










President Barack Obama addresses a Joint Session of Congress in the House Chamber of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. on Sept. 8, 2011. (Chuck Kennedy / White House) 

Obama Pushes Jobs, Immigration ReformUS President Barack Obama said Wednesday night that reforming the nation's immigration system is central to repairing its economy, while calling on Congress to pass his jobs bill and the DREAM act.


Obama Pushes Jobs, Immigration ReformUS President Barack Obama said Wednesday night that reforming the nation's immigration system is central to repairing its economy, while calling on Congress to pass his jobs bill and the DREAM act.
Obama Pushes Jobs, Immigration ReformUS President Barack Obama said Wednesday night that reforming the nation's immigration system is central to repairing its economy, while calling on Congress to pass his jobs bill and the DREAM act.

One-on-One with Mitt RomneyRepublican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney has invested a full day campaigning in Arizona, making several appearances in the early primary state, and he sat down to talk with FOX 10's Steve Krafft.
One-on-One with Mitt RomneyRepublican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney has invested a full day campaigning in Arizona, making several appearances in the early primary state, and he sat down to talk with FOX 10's Steve Krafft.

Twitter Users Mock Obama's AttackWatchOne of the top-trending Twitter hashtags in the United States on Wednesday was #attackwatch -- where scores of tweets each minute are lampooning President Barack Obama's re-election campaign, for encouraging supporters to report anti-Obama claims via a new website, …
Twitter Users Mock Obama's AttackWatchOne of the top-trending Twitter hashtags in the United States on Wednesday was #attackwatch -- where scores of tweets each minute are lampooning President Barack Obama's re-election campaign, for encouraging supporters to report anti-Obama…



Obama Pushes Jobs, Immigration Reform

One-on-One with Mitt Romney


Twitter Users Mock Obama's AttackWatch
More Stories »









 

Huge Balloon Could Cut Global WarmingIt sounds like hot air but a group of British academics believes that floating a helium balloon the size of a football stadium 12.4 miles above our heads could cool down the planet.  


Huge Balloon Could Cut Global WarmingIt sounds like hot air but a group of British academics believes that floating a helium balloon the size of a football stadium 12.4 miles above our heads could cool down the planet.  
Huge Balloon Could Cut Global WarmingIt sounds like hot air but a group of British academics believes that floating a helium balloon the size of a football stadium 12.4 miles above our heads could cool down the planet.  

Thief Swallows Diamond, Caught by X-RayA thief in Spain who stole a diamond from a British woman -- and then swallowed it -- was caught when police stopped him at a checkpoint and forced him to undergo an X-ray, police said Wednesday.
Thief Swallows Diamond, Caught by X-RayA thief in Spain who stole a diamond from a British woman -- and then swallowed it -- was caught when police stopped him at a checkpoint and forced him to undergo an X-ray, police said Wednesday.

Researchers Working on 'Jelly'…The MacBook Air could actually get lighter, thanks to new battery technology being developed by scientists.
Researchers Working on 'Jelly'…The MacBook Air could actually get lighter, thanks to new battery technology being developed by scientists.



Huge Balloon Could Cut Global Warming

Thief Swallows Diamond, Caught by X-Ray

Researchers Working on 'Jelly'…
More Stories»












Latest News



Human Remains Found in Search for Mom


Extreme Couponer Reveals Her Strategy



Had Enough - 9/14



Hand Doctor on Trial for Assaulting Wife



Mysterious Light Flashes Across Sky






Video: Glendale Bakery Robbery



Former Teacher Receives Probation


Father Sought for Custodial Interference


Man Sentenced for Holding Hostages


Attendant Found Shot at Gas Station










More News »
  











FOX News Most Popular Content



Boeing, NLRB Battle Heading for a Vote…


FBI Investigating Alleged Nude…


Nobel Prize-Winning Physicist Resigns…


Obama Pitches Jobs Bill at North…


Treasury Joins FBI, Congress in…






More Stories »














LIVE Video



Watch Live: FOX 10 AZAM

Watch Live: FOX 10 News at Noon

Watch Live: FOX 10 News at 5&6

Watch Live: FOX 10 News at 9&10

Sedona Webcam

Live: NAU Webcam

SunDiego Boardshops Beachcams












Immigration & Border Battle News






Man Sentenced for Holding Hostages
A Mexican man convicted of holding five illegal immigrants hostage in southern …


Customs Deports Homicide Suspect


Hearing on Utah Immigration Law Delayed


GOP Candidates Spar on Immigration


AZ Stops Monitoring Teachers over Accent


La Raza Says Boycott Was a Success




















War Room






Son Gifts Parents with Childhood Home

A valley family who lost their home to foreclosure two years ago is getting it …


Glendale Sailor Serves on Supercarrier



US Embassy Attacked in Afghanistan


McCain: US Will Face Terrorist Threats


Patriot Day Celebration in Phoenix



Patriot Guard Riders Honor Fallen Heroes









More News »












Traffic






Driver Arrested in Deadly Hit & Run

A man was arrested after police say he hit and killed a young woman and then …




Traffic News »
  












Text Alerts






Sign Up for Weather & Promo Text Alerts

You can now get weather & promo alerts texted directly to your mobile device. 

Click Here! »












Morning Show






Phoenix Fire Station 25

FOX 10's Cory McCloskey visits the firefighters at Phoenix Fire Department's …


Drink Beer for a Good Cause Wed. Night



Rick Battles NASCAR Driver



'Glee's' Jane Lynch Comments on Phoenix



Giuliana Rancic Gives Emmys Preview



Missoni Designer Sale Big Hit at Target











More Stories »











What's on TV





Fox on DemandClick here to check out FOX primetime programming for free right from your desktop!  


On TV Tonight Phoenix (85003)
07:00Bones09:00FOX 10 News @ 9pm10:00FOX 10 News @ 10pm10:30TMZ11:00Law & Order: Special…

More Local listings &raquo
  











FOX 10 Contests & Events






FOX 10 Contests & Events

Check out all of the contests and events currently running at FOX 10. Click here! 













FOX 10 Events - Community Calendar






FOX 10 Events

See the latest upcoming events in the valley. You can also post an event. Click here! 


  




















FOX 10 E-News Updates






FOX 10 E-News Updates

Sign up for the latest news sent directly to your e-mail!  Click here! 













P.F. Chang's Rock 'N' Roll AZ Marathon






Rock 'N' Roll Marathon

Jan. 15: Save the date for the P.F. Chang’s Rock ‘n’ Roll AZ Marathon & ½ Marathon. Start training now! 

Click here! »




 Yellow Pages by MojoPages    			  	Phoenix Business Directory  Business  Location     Phoenix Barbers Phoenix Beads Phoenix Body Shop Phoenix Books Phoenix Boutique Phoenix Car Leasing Phoenix Car Wash Phoenix Counter Tops Phoenix Donuts Phoenix Drywall Phoenix Dvd Rental Phoenix Estate Planning Phoenix Fast Food Phoenix Formal Wear Phoenix Garden Centers Phoenix Glass Repair Phoenix Health Food Phoenix Kennels Phoenix Libraries Phoenix Martial Arts Phoenix Night Club Phoenix Psychiatrist Phoenix Tailors Phoenix Uniforms Phoenix Used Books






















Current Conditions


More Weather »
























My Dating Place


  The ultimate place for you to meet that special someone - and it's all FREE! - Click Here! 














Stay Connected with FOX 10 Apps & Feeds


          Twitter Facebook E-Mail Alerts RSS Feeds Send pics! MyFOXCam           BlackBerry® iPhone Droid Mobile Community Calendar    
















FOX 10 Daily Deal






Daily Deal

Times are tough.  Are you looking to save money? Click here for FOX 10's Daily Deal coupons! 

Today's Deal »
  










Had Enough?


   What Have You Had Enough of? Politics, Taxes? Let us know and we might use your comment on FOX 10 News @ 9pmClick Here>>  














Poll Question



















Stock Markets


Market Summary »








Advertisement

  












Weather
Weather Buffet








Arizona Weather Forecast


Check out the weather forecast for the Phoenix metro and surrounding areas! 

More Weather »
  








Weather Buffet

Click here for all the latest weather information, historical facts, radar, satellite imagery and more. 

More Weather »

 















Advertisement

  

  







Home
News
Morning Show
Weather
Sports
Traffic
Health
Entertainment
About Us
Seen on TV
Dating


Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Advertise with UsMany pages in this Fox Television Stations, Inc. web site feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to Fox Television Stations, Inc. Fox Television Stations, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2011 Fox Television Stations, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.













