 June 2011 Archives - Eco-Friendly Tips


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising






Controling Pests and Bugs
POSTED BY Elaine on Jun 30 under Animals, Eco-friendly
The summer is a great time of year to get back in touch with nature. Many green activists like to use this time to do some gardening as the weather and temperature really help to create some beautiful flowers and tasty vegetables.Other activities include nature walks, barbecues, beach trips, walking dogs and more. Unfortunately there [...]


Comments Off



Salt As Cleaning Agent
POSTED BY Lira on Jun 30 under Eco-friendly
Did you know that the very common and easily available table salt can be used as an effective cleaning agent for the home? The salt’s texture makes it perfect for scouring and scrubbing. Many cosmetics and beauty brands have their own version of salts scrubs in the market, which cost a little more, when you [...]


Comments Off



Green Initiatives no Plastic Bag Day
POSTED BY Elaine on Jun 30 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste, Pollution, Recycling
There is nothing more refreshing to green activists eyes than when a good step forward occurs, especially when traveling across country. Malaysia is the latest country to help restore faith against global warning when I witnessed the remarkable popularity and continued success of the no plastic bag day which happens every Saturday without fail. This [...]


Comments Off



Energy Technology Ventures, a GE-NRG Energy-ConocoPhillips Joint Venture, Invests in Israeli Wastewater-to-Electricity Company Emefcy
POSTED BY Press on Jun 28 under Uncategorized
Energy Technology Ventures, a GE-NRG Energy-ConocoPhillips Joint Venture, Invests in Israeli Wastewater-to-Electricity Company Emefcy PR Newswire — June 28, 2011 CAESAREA, Israel, June 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ – Energy Technology Ventures – a GE, NRG Energy and ConocoPhillips joint venture – is making its first non-US and first water-related investment by providing capital to Emefcy Ltd, [...]


Comments Off



Day4 Energy’s Licensed Manufacturing Partner Gebäude-Solarsysteme GmbH (GSS) of Germany Expands Product Line
POSTED BY Press on Jun 28 under Uncategorized
Day4 Energy’s Licensed Manufacturing Partner Gebäude-Solarsysteme GmbH (GSS) of Germany Expands Product Line PR Newswire — June 28, 2011 BURNABY, British Columbia, June 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ – – GSS adds Day4 DNA equipped solar modules to its existing roof integrated PV product line; targeting the growing residential roof-top market in Europe. – First products scheduled [...]


Comments Off



Meet Eight World Renowned Personalities at One Place
POSTED BY Press on Jun 28 under Uncategorized
Meet Eight World Renowned Personalities at One Place PR Newswire — June 28, 2011 BRATISLAVA, Slovakia, June 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ – “How to increase profitability, turn a local company into a globally recognized brand and how to use intuition in order to achieve your goals?” Eight famous keynote speakers of business, politics, and management and [...]


Comments Off



EU Carbon Prices Fall to Lowest Since the Recession
POSTED BY Press on Jun 28 under Uncategorized
EU Carbon Prices Fall to Lowest Since the Recession PR Newswire — June 28, 2011 LONDON, June 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ – Prices in the EU’s emissions trading system have plunged to the lowest levels since a recession-led sell off in March 2009, as European infighting over climate change goals drains the market of demand. On [...]


Comments Off



Ricoh Launches 100 Per Cent Sustainable ‘Eco-Board’ in London
POSTED BY Press on Jun 28 under Uncategorized
Ricoh Launches 100 Per Cent Sustainable ‘Eco-Board’ in London PR Newswire — June 28, 2011 LONDON, June 28, 2011 /PRNewswire/ – Billboard Powered Only by Wind and Solar Energy Sets a New Standard for Responsible Advertising Across the Globe Ricoh Europe [http://www.ricoh-europe.com/?utm_source=press-release&utm_medium=word&utm_campaign=eco-board ] , a specialist in office solutions, managed document services and production printing, [...]


Comments Off



Paint Made from Recycled Plastic Bottles
POSTED BY Lira on Jun 28 under Eco-friendly News, Garbage and Waste
This is actually quite a wonderful color and it’s perfect for the summer. And the great thing about it? Lots of reasons. This paint is made from recycled plastic bottles. It has made good use of waste that would have supposedly filled out landfills, for one thing. And its paint formulation and its use actually [...]


Comments Off



Cape Scott Wind Farm Site Development – Completion of Transaction for “Phase One”
POSTED BY Press on Jun 27 under Uncategorized
Cape Scott Wind Farm Site Development – Completion of Transaction for “Phase One” PR Newswire — June 27, 2011 VANCOUVER, June 27, 2011 /PRNewswire/ – TSX-VENTURE :SBX Sea Breeze Power Corp. (“Sea Breeze”) is pleased to announce that it has closed an “Asset Purchase” transaction (the “Transaction”) with IPR – GDF SUEZ North America (“IPR [...]


Comments Off



Next Page »





Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers




 

 Eco-friendly Tips FeedAPEC members chart routes to greener transport6.0-magnitude earthquake hits Aleutian Islands, AlaskaShanghai families say kids poisoned by leadBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy




Tag cloud


mother earth
organic cotton
hurricane irene
earthquake
tropical storm lee
global warming
Recycling
recycled materials
epicenter
pr newswire
prnewswire
Eco-friendly
global warning
green
ecofriendly
richter scale
carbon footprint
earth
eco
consumers
saving energy
environment
money
clothes
national hurricane center
lifestyle
reuters
climate change
barack obama
christmas
Categories 
Alternative Energy (120)

Animals (67)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (171)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (86)

Eco Gadgets (89)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1117)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (446)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (30)

Fuel (13)

Garbage and Waste (87)

Global Warning (134)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (72)

Lighting (28)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (71)

Press Releases (33)

Recycling (194)

Solar Power (60)

Transportation (72)

Water (34)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Articles of Interestozone layerfashiondrinking waterwood deckseco calendarPlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




