 Shed Plans






Home
Privacy Policy













Shed Plans
Learn How To Build A Shed,Patio


 




Home
Build A Shed

Build Shed

Build Shed Plans

Building A Shed

Free Shed Plan

Free Shed Plans

Free Woodworking Plans

Garden Shed

Garden Shed Plans

Garden Sheds

Garden Storage Shed

Garden Storage Sheds

My Shed

Outdoor Shed

Outdoor Storage Sheds

Plans For A Shed

Plans For Shed

Plans For Sheds

Plans To Shed

Shed Blueprints

Shed Building

Shed Building Plans

Shed Plan

Shed Plans

Shed Plans Free

Sheds Plans

Storage Shed

Storage Shed Plans

Storage Sheds

Wood Shed

Wood Shed Plans

Wooden Garden Sheds

Wooden Shed

Wooden Sheds

Woodwork

Woodworking

Woodworking Plans

Woodworking Projects



 




Father Charged With Abuse For Tossing Son Off Boat
Posted by admin on  September 15th, 2011 

(CNN) — A southern California man who attracted widespread attention for allegedly throwing his 7-year-old son overboard during a harbor cruise was charged Wednesday with felony child abuse and endangerment as well as misdemeanor resisting an officer, the Orange County District Attorney’s office said.Sloan Steven Briles, 35, of Irvine, California, is also accused of being under the influence of alcohol on August 28 when he tossed his son into the path of boat traffic in Newport Beach Harbor, said Susan Kang Schroeder, chief of staff for the prosecutor’s office.Briles, who is free on $100,000 bail, is scheduled to be arraigned September 26 in Newport Beach, the prosecutor’s office said.if convicted of both charges, he faces a maximum sentence of six years in prison, authorities said.Briles recently told a Los Angeles TV news station that he did nothing wrong.Briles told CNN affiliate KTLA, “We were having fun, it was a harbor cruise!”He said he did not hit his son and he “did nothing except jump in the water with my kid.”Asked if he would have done the same thing had he not been drinking, Briles responded, “Absolutely.”Briles also disputed the sheriff’s and witnesses’ account of the event and said it was just a joke.”We jumped in together,” Briles told the affiliate. “We thought it would be funny. we were just screwing around.”Briles, who’s divorced, was on the tour boat Queen with his two sons — the other is age 6 — when he got into an argument with his girlfriend, the sheriff’s office said.the boat takes passengers past Newport Beach houses that are or were occupied by celebrities, including the home where the late John Wayne lived, authorities said.His 7-year-old son became upset about the argument and started crying, authorities said.Briles allegedly poked his 7-year-old son in the chest and repeatedly slapped him in the face, making him cry, prosecutors said in a statement Wednesday. the boy asked his father to stop, prosecutors said.the father took the boy to the bow of the boat and told him, ” ‘If you don’t stop crying, I’m going to throw you overboard,’ ” a sheriff’s department spokesman said.the dad then picked up his son and threw him about 10 feet over the side of the tour boat, prosecutors said.the first mate stalled the vessel and steered it to shield the boy from being struck by another boat, and the captain threw a life ring to the crying boy as he treaded water, prosecutors said.the father then jumped into the water “to avoid the angry passengers on the Queen who began to yell at him,” according to the statement released by Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas.Prosecutors allege the father made “no attempt to swim to his son’s aid.”Another passing boat helped the boy out of the water, but the Queen’s crew asked that boat “not to help Briles, who was eventually pulled back onto the Queen,” the prosecutor’s media announcement said.When sheriff’s deputies who patrol the harbor approached Briles on the boat, he allegedly ignored their orders to stand, struggled with them and made his body go limp, prosecutors said.Deputies had to drag him from the tour boat to the sheriff’s harbor patrol boat, prosecutors said.There were 85 people on the tour boat, authorities said. Deputies took the two boys to their harbor station and later turned them over to their mother, a sheriff’s spokesman said.CNN’s Carey Bodenheimer contributed to this report.Copyright CNN 2011

Read More »






Security Forces End Kabul Siege
Posted by admin on  September 15th, 2011 

BY MARIA ABI-HABIB AND ZIA ULHAQ
 KABUL, Afghanistan—an attack on the U.S. Embassy and other international institutions in the center of Kabul ended after 20 hours Wednesday morning when security forces killed the last of the insurgents holed up in a building from which they shot and lobbed grenades at their targets.
 By Wednesday afternoon, five policemen and 11 civilians—several of them children—were confirmed dead. an additional 11 policemen and 19 civilians were wounded, U.S. and Afghan officials said.
 The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack. U.S. officials said it was orchestrated by a Taliban ally, the Haqqani network. 
 The attack served as a test of …
 BY MARIA ABI-HABIB AND ZIA ULHAQ
 KABUL, Afghanistan—an attack on the U.S. Embassy and other international institutions in the center of Kabul ended after 20 hours Wednesday morning when security forces killed the last of the insurgents holed up in a building from which they shot and lobbed grenades at their targets.
 By Wednesday afternoon, five policemen and 11 civilians—several of them children—were confirmed dead. an additional 11 policemen and 19 civilians were wounded, U.S. and Afghan officials said.
 The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack. U.S. officials said it was orchestrated by a Taliban ally, the Haqqani network. 
 The attack served as a test of …

Read More »






Family of alleged hate-killing victim opposes death penalty in case
Posted by admin on  September 15th, 2011 

STORY HIGHLIGHTS

James Anderson’s family opposes the death penalty for religious and historical reasons
"our loss will not be lessened by the state taking the life of another," they say
Deryl Dedmon Jr., 19, is charged with murder in the case

Editor’s note: this story contains language some readers may consider offensive. 
Jackson, Mississippi (CNN) — the family of an African-American man who died after allegedly being beaten by a group of white teens and run over by a truck is asking state and federal officials not to seek the death penalty in the case.
Relatives of James Craig Anderson, who died shortly after receiving his injuries on June 26, sent a letter with their request to the prosecutor in the case, Hinds County District Attorney Robert Shuler Smith.
"We ask that you not seek the death penalty for anyone involved in James’ murder," the letter states; the letter is signed by Barbara Anderson Young, James Craig Anderson’s sister who is in charge of, and speaks for, his estate.
The letter states that the family is opposed to the death penalty partly for religious convictions.
"our opposition to the death penalty is deeply rooted in our religious faith, a faith that was central in James’ life as well," the letter states. But the family goes on to explain that there is another reason for their opposition, one that is tied to Mississippi’s racial past.
"We also oppose the death penalty because it historically has been used in Mississippi and the South primarily against people of color for killing whites," the letter states. "Executing James’ killers will not help to balance the scales. But sparing them may help to spark a dialogue that one day will lead to the elimination of capital punishment."
The family has been mostly private in its grief, but the letter sent to the DA’s office alludes to what the family is going through.
"Those responsible for James’ death not only ended the life of a talented and wonderful man. they also caused our family unspeakable pain and grief. But our loss will not be lessened by the state taking the life of another," it says.
The death of James Craig Anderson, 48, occurred early June 26 in Jackson, allegedly at the hands of white teens who, after a night of partying and drinking, decided to go looking for black people to assault, law enforcement officials have said, quoting one of the suspects in the case.
Anderson’s death drew national attention after CNN first reported it and aired exclusive surveillance video of the actual killing, captured by a parking lot security camera in a Jackson suburb. Smith, the district attorney, has called it "vicious" and a "premeditated hate crime."
"We have a racially motivated killing," said Smith, asserting that the group of white teens sought out a black person to kill. "the teens came to Jackson and they picked out a black man, an innocent victim. they assaulted that victim, and then they just killed him."
U.S. Department of Justice investigators are now in Jackson, investigating the death as a possible federal hate crime and assisting local prosecutors. the killing has also prompted several large marches and prayer vigils in Jackson, a city of nearly 540,000 people.
Deryl Dedmon Jr., 19, of Brandon, Mississippi, is facing murder charges in Anderson’s death and is eligible for the death penalty. a second teen, John Aaron Rice, 18, was initially charged with murder, but a judge reduced the charge to simple assault because Rice was not believed to be driving the vehicle used to kill Anderson.
However, Hinds County prosecutors said they plan to seek indictments against both Dedmon and Rice for murder and a hate crime, and will seek indictments against other teens who were at the scene. neither teen has entered a plea.
The district attorney’s office has not officially commented on the family’s request for no death penalty in the case.
Last week the Anderson family filed a wrongful death suit against all seven of the white teens alleged to have been present at the beating of Anderson that immediately preceded him being run over by the truck. the Southern Poverty Law Center, a nationally recognized organization based in Montgomery, Alabama, that opposes racism and intolerance, joined in the lawsuit.
"James Anderson lost his life for no other reason than the color of his skin," said Morris Dees, chief trial counsel for the law center. "Those responsible must be held accountable for their callous and deadly actions. We are filing this lawsuit today to ensure his family gets a measure of justice."
In addition to Dedmon and Rice, the lawsuit names five other teens as taking part in the incident that evening: Sarah Graves of Crystal Springs; Shelbie Richards of Pearl; and William Kirk Montgomery, John Blaylock and Dylan Butler, all of Brandon. none of the five has been arrested or charged, and it was unclear whether they had retained attorneys.
Anderson, a line worker at a Nissan plant, sang in his church choir, the family’s attorney, Winston J. Thompson III, told reporters. he leaves behind his partner of 17 years.
"he was just a pillar of the community," Thompson said. "he paid his taxes on time, he went to work, came home — he was just an average, ordinary citizen, good guy, wonderful gardener."
"Anyone who knew James could see that he was a caring man with a beautiful smile," said Anderson’s sister, Barbara Anderson Young, in a previous statement. "he was such a compassionate person. We must take an honest look at the racial climate that motivated some young people to hurt such a wonderful person."
Attorneys for Dedmon and Rice have not responded to requests for comment from CNN. During a bond hearing, Dedmon’s attorney told the court he saw nothing to back up the "racial allegations."
A civil trial can proceed at the same time as a criminal case, but often the civil case is delayed pending the resolution of a criminal trial. While a criminal case is pending, a defendant in a civil case may need to invoke the fifth Amendment.
The lawsuit alleges all seven of the teens "took part in what we call a joint venture, to seek out and do harm to a person of color," Thompson said.
Authorities believe Dedmon led and instigated the attack, which took place after a night of drinking in largely white Rankin County outside Jackson. Dedmon told friends they should leave, saying, "Let’s go fuck with some niggers," officials said.
The gang of teens climbed into Dedmon’s green truck and a white SUV and drove 16 miles to the western edge of Jackson. they would have seen Anderson immediately as they exited the highway, officials said. he was standing in a hotel parking lot just beyond the exit ramp.
On the videotape obtained exclusively by CNN, the group of teens is seen pulling into the parking lot and stopping where Anderson is standing, although he is just off camera and not visible.
The teens can then be seen going back and forth between their cars and Anderson. Witnesses told authorities this is when Anderson’s beating took place, as the teens yelled racial epithets, including "white power."
Authorities allege Dedmon and many of the other teens pummeled Anderson repeatedly as he crumpled to the ground, although this is not visible on the tape. after the beating, some of the teens left and others got into the green Ford truck.
At this moment, Anderson becomes visible on the tape as he staggers into view and walks toward the truck.
"Defendant Dedmon drove the F-250 out of the parking lot and turned right onto Ellis Avenue," the lawsuit says. "just as Dedmon turned right, his headlights shone directly on Anderson, who, having been severely beaten, was stumbling in a grassy are near the motel’s entrance. Dedmon accelerated, drove onto and over the street curb, and struck Anderson with the front of the F-250."
Shortly afterward, Dedmon allegedly boasted and laughed about the killing, according to statements some of the teens made to detectives. "I ran that n—– over," he allegedly said in a phone conversation to the teens in the other car.
"he was not remorseful," District Attorney Smith said. "he was laughing, laughing about the killing."
The proceedings of the case are taking place in the Hinds County courthouse, where in 1994 Byron de la Beckwith was convicted in the notorious killing of civil rights leader Medgar Evers in 1963. That case and others have given Mississippi a racially charged history.

Read More »






Sarah Palin alleged to have used cocaine and marijuana
Posted by admin on  September 15th, 2011 


A highly anticipated biography of Sarah Palin alleges the Tea Party politician and former Republican vice presidential candidate used cocaine and marijuana, and had a long affair with her husband’s business partner.
The Rogue: Searching for the Real Sarah Palin by the respected if controversial author, Joe McGinniss, claims Palin was seen snorting cocaine off the top of a 55-gallon drum while snowmobiling with friends. It also alleges she smoked marijuana with a professor while at Mat-Su College in Alaska.
The book, scheduled for release in the US next week, quotes a Palin family friend as alleging that Palin’s husband, Todd, also used cocaine and that he was “on the end of the straw plenty”.
McGinniss, who made his name as the young author of a study of Richard Nixon’s campaign, The Selling of the President 1968, angered Palin by moving in next door to her home in Wasilla, Alaska. Palin warned him to not to spy on her family, saying she suspected he was trying to look in her daughter’s window from his property.
The book claims to substantiate allegations previously denied by Palin that she had an affair for six months in the mid-1990s with her husband’s business partner. McGinniss writes that the relationship put considerable pressure on Palin’s marriage.
Anticipation of the book’s release has been heightened by a deal McGinniss made with Garry Trudeau, author of the Doonesbury cartoon, to include extracts in the strip read by an imaginary Fox News reporter who moved in next door to McGinniss.
Some US newspapers have declined to run the strip which includes lines claiming that “Palin isn’t comfortable in the presence of dark skinned people”.

Read More »






Santorum keeps needling Perry
Posted by admin on  September 15th, 2011 


With Michele Bachmann on the defensive over her suggestion that the HPV vaccine can cause mental retardation, it’s former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum who continues to flog the issue tonight.
In a statement to reporters, Santorum communications director Hogan Gidley took a jab at Rick Perry for saying his proposed HPV vaccine mandate should have been structured as an opt-in, rather than an opt-out program.
 Continue Reading
"I’m glad Governor Perry is finally listening to Rick Santorum – and now understands a conservative position: that the government take-over of a 12-year old girl’s body is a bad idea," Gidley said. "Hopefully Senator Santorum can now get Governor Perry to flip his position on building a border fence, giving special tuition rates for children of illegals, and supporting gay marriage at the state level."
Like Bachmann, Santorum has the kind of ironclad social-conservative credentials that make the HPV vaccine mandate an easy target for him in this campaign.
He’s gone after Perry on the issue in both GOP primary debates; in tonight’s statement, Santorum’s campaign takes the issue further and tries to raise larger questions about the frontrunner’s ideological authenticity.

Read More »






Arkansas courthouse gunman walked into building unopposed
Posted by admin on  September 14th, 2011 


 LITTLE ROCK, Ark | Wed Sep 14, 2011 6:04pm EDT 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark (Reuters) – a gunman who opened fire in an Arkansas judge’s office on Tuesday entered the courthouse unopposed while wearing tactical gear and armed with three semi-automatic weapons, authorities said on Wednesday.
The apparent ease with which James Ray Palmer entered the building — straight through the front door — has raised questions about safety even in small county courthouses and prompted a reexamination of security measures there.
“For many years we have recognized the potential dangers for judges and their employees,” Supreme Court Chief Justice Jim Hannah said in a statement, adding that he and other judges have been trying to call attention to the issue.
“But this isn’t just about protecting judges. we want the courts to be accessible and safe for everyone who uses the legal system.”
Authorities said Palmer, who was ultimately shot dead by police, had set his own home on fire in nearby Kibler, Arkansas, before going on a shooting rampage on the second floor of the Crawford County courthouse.
“He had attempted to burn his residence using incendiary devices that were strategically placed to engulf the house, but it didn’t burn as much as he had hoped,” said Sgt. Daniel Grubbs, spokesman for the Fort Smith Police Department.
When Palmer, 48, got to the courthouse, he asked for Crawford County Division 1 Judge Gary Cottrell, who had once presided over a divorce and custody case involving Palmer, police said.
A courthouse employee informed him that Cottrell was out of the courthouse, authorities said. Palmer then shot the employee in the leg, wounding her.
He then fired several rounds in the courthouse in shooting that continued for about eight minutes, including shots into historic photographs, walls and doors.
Employees sounded panic alarms and made 911 calls that triggered responses from multiple agencies, including the Van Buren Police Department, the Crawford County Sheriff’s office, the Fort Smith Police Department, Arkansas State Police and the Arkansas Highway Patrol.
Grubbs said Palmer exited through the front door and spent about four minutes on the lawn, eventually leaving on a motorcycle. As officers arrived, Palmer engaged them in gunfire, Grubbs said.
One officer suffered minor injuries from shattered glass from his vehicle, and Palmer was shot and later died.
Police were trying to ascertain Palmer’s motives in the shooting, but said his death means answers to his rampage may be hard to come by. No major evidence was found at his home.
“What causes people to go into this series of actions, we may never know,” Grubbs said.
Palmer, who had no criminal history, had a permit to carry a concealed weapon, according to Arkansas State Police. he wore tactical gear similar to what law enforcement officers wear that allows the carrying of extra magazines and holsters for firearms.
Investigators were talking to Palmer’s relatives to see if they can provide any clues to his actions. Grubbs said it took considerable time to track down Palmer’s next-of-kin.
On Wednesday, officials said the courthouse, which had six entrances before the shooting, would only have one from now on. Other security measures were being examined as the investigation continued, officials said.
(Edited by Karen Brooks and Cynthia Johnston)

Read More »






Gumby Bandit Robs Convenience Store
Posted by admin on  September 14th, 2011 

 AP
A man dressed as our lovable green friend, Gumby, not only attempted to rob a convenience store, but he even turned himself in. This story couldn’t be made up even if we wanted to.
The San Diego Police department must have had a few laughs when surveillance video came in with a costumed man demanding cash at a 7-Eleven on September 5th.
 a man dressed as the green claymation character walked into the store with another suspect in regular civilian clothes and no mask. the Gumby bandit demanded cash from the clerk, but he wasn’t taken seriously. the clerk said he was busy, thinking it was all a joke.
 That’s when the robber put his hand in his pocket searching for what may have been a weapon, but only dropped a few cents on the ground. He attempted to pick up the spare change, but left instead when his friend called him out of the store.
 the San Diego Police were able to identify the unmasked accomplice as Jason Giramma with the help of Crimestoppers. With Giramma’s name in place, it was only a matter of time before they discovered who was behind the Gumby costume, 19-year-old Jacob Kiss.
 Jacob Kiss and Jason Giramma both turned themselves in and brought their Gumby disguise with them. Now it’s up to the district attorney to decide the fate of these teenagers.

Read More »






Windows 8 Developer Preview available as free download
Posted by admin on  September 14th, 2011 


Microsoft has released its Windows 8 Developer Preview operating system, for PCs and tablets, to the public as a free download.
This is the same software which Microsoft gave to developers on prototype Samsung tablets this week at the company's Build conference in Anaheim.
And while this pre-beta version of Windows 8 is not close to ready for consumer consumption, and meant to be used by developers who are looking to make apps for the desktop and tablet OS, anyone can download the software — no developer registration or anything like that needed.
The move to release Windows 8 so early on can be seen as a testament to just how much Microsoft wants, and needs, developers to get into building apps for the new OS before it is actually released as a retail product that will compete on tablets against Apple's iPad (running iOS) and Google's Android software.
Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, made a surprise appearance at Build on Wednesday and touted 500,000 downloads of Windows 8 overnight as a testament to developer interest in the new platform, according the tech blog This Is My Next.
Microsoft has made available three different versions of Windows 8 for download (two versions built for 64-bit systems which use new processors and can make use of more RAM, versus older 32-bit PCs that use earlier chips and less memory), which all show up as an ISO file when downloaded.
The three versions also vary in size and as an ISO file will need to be downloaded and burned to a DVD or installed on a bootable USB drive before being installed
(Microsoft, of course recommends using Windows Disc Image Burner on Windows 7 to get the ISO file onto a DVD).
The three versions, all in English, are:

Windows Developer Preview with developer tools, 64-bit:  A 4.8-gigabyte download, this version includes Windows 8 Developer Preview operating system with a Windows software developer kit for Metro style apps made up of Microsoft Visual Studio 11 Express and Microsoft Expression Blend 5, as well as 28 preview apps.


Windows Developer Preview, 64-bit: A 3.6-gigbyte download, this version is made up of just the Windows 8 Developer Preview OS and the 28 preview apps — no added developer tools 


Windows Developer Preview English, 32-bit: the smallest of the bunch, this 2.8-gigabyte download includes the Windows 8 Developer Preview OS and the 28 preview apps.

Since this is a preview version of Windows 8, it still has plenty of bugs that need to be fixed. This isn't yet even a beta release and not polished enough for the mass market. So if you're interested in downloading this early release, it might be a good idea to install it on a spare PC rather than your main computer. If you only have one computer, do consider the risk here.
Microsoft has said that all Windows 7 apps should work in Windows 8 on desktops and laptops, but there are no guarantees that will hold true at this point given the OS is in development.
RELATED:
Microsoft shows off Windows 8 at Build conference
Microsoft previews Windows 8 for both tablets and PCs
Windows 8: A first look at Microsoft's new operating system [Video]
– Nathan Olivarez-Giles
Photo: Microsoft Windows President Steven Sinofsky introduces a new tablet, running a test version of its touch-enabled Windows 8, at the Build conference in Anaheim on Tuesday. Credit: Alex Gallardo/Reuters

Read More »






RLPC-French banks look to pass on rising dollar loan costs
Posted by admin on  September 14th, 2011 


 Wed Sep 14, 2011 12:56pm EDT 
 * Taking harder line on dollar loans
 * Rising funding costs, CDS rates hit appetite to lend
 * Higher pricing seen on commodities, emerging markets loans
 by Tessa Walsh 
 LONDON, Sept 14 (Reuters) – French banks are pushing harderto pass increased funding costs on to top companies in Europe,the Middle East and Africa, further reducing the supply ofcredit to the ailing euro zone. 
 Three French banks — BNP Paribas , Credit AgricoleCIB and Societe Generale — dominate theEMEA syndicated loan league tables, according to Thomson ReutersLPC. 
 Any change in lending appetite or strategy as French bankstry to stem losses caused by higher funding costs and lowlending rates will have a significant effect on the loan market,bankers said. 
 Soaring credit default swap (CDS) rates of up to 300 basispoints (b.p.) for French banks are increasing losses on Europeancorporate loans which are usually priced well under 100 b.p. 
 A recent spike in dollar funding rates has made dollar loanspunitively expensive. 
 “Banks are losing money hand over fist. Syndicated loanslost money before but it is worse now. this is really hurtingbanks,” a London-based banker said. 
 French banks have suffered most from the drop in short-termfunding by U.S. money market funds alarmed by Europe’sdeteriorating sovereign debt crisis and French bank exposure toGreek debt. 
 The amount of lending to French banks fell $39 billion to$161 billion in August, according to JP Morgan. Credit Agricoleand SocGen were downgraded by Moody’s on Wednesday. 
 BNP announced a plan to sell 70 billion euros ($96billion)of assets to help ease investor fears about leverage andfunding that hit its two main rivals. 
 BNP Paribas said its funds from U.S. money market lendersfell to $36 billion on Sept. 9 from $46 billion at the end ofJuly. 
 its five-year CDS rate was 284-298 at 1500 GMT, according toMarkIt, when Credit Agricole’s was 298-313 and SocGen was at407-429. 
 “One would think that the difference now, between whereFrench banks are funding themselves and where syndicated loanpricing is, is unsustainable,” the senior London-based bankersaid. 
 BNP Paribas topped EMEA loan league tables at the end ofJune with volume of $29 billion on 128 loans. The bank was thebiggest arranger of loans in 2010 when its share of 200 dealscame to $50 billion. 
 at the half year, Credit Agricole CIB’s share of 80 dealstotalled $24.2 billion and SG’s tally of 80 deals came to $20.7billion. 
 French banks have been trying to charge more for dollarloans or deciding not to lend at all. BNP Paribas said ‘no’ to a$1.65 billion commitment to join the top tier of SABMiller’s $12.5 billion acquisition loan, along with Commerzbank. 
 “Not to do it (SABMiller’s loan) begs a question in terms ofstrategy. Are those banks wising up to the true cost of capitaland funding?” a senior loan originator said. 
 although BNP had sufficient dollars, it chose not to deploythem, believing the return from the 10-bank club loan and a10-way split of the bond fees did not offer sufficientcompensation, the bank said. 
 BNP Paribas also pulled out of a $1 billion loan for a LatinAmerican quasi-sovereign company, citing difficulties withfunding costs, and dollars in particular, sources said. 
 French banks, as well as Italian and Spanish lenders, areasking for premiums of 25-30 b.p. on dollar loans and askingcompanies to redenominate loans or limit dollar borrowing. 
 SocGen asked Adecco , the world’s biggest staffingcompany, to redenominate an upcoming $600 million refinancinginto euros, and to cap any dollar borrowings at a third of thefacility size, bankers said on Wednesday. 
Commodities companies and top borrowers in Russia and theMiddle East are already feeling the effects of the dollarsqueeze and are having to pull loan pricing higher. 
 Swiss-based Vitol, the world’s largest oil trading firm, cut the size of its refinancing to $4.5 billion, and upped theinterest margin by up to 10 b.p. in a concession to lenders,bankers said. 
 In the Middle East, pricing on Qatar Petroleum andExxon Mobil’s $4.7 billion syndicated loan backing theBarzan gas project has been increased from sub-200 b.p. onestimates at the start of the year. 
 In Russia, pricing on Russian coal producer SUEK’s $1.0-1.5billion loan is being revised after the original margin poseddifficulties for European lenders. 
 Russian mid-sized oil firm Bashneft was also told by bankersthat it would have to increase pricing on its sub 200 b.p. toaround 275 b.p. ($1 = 0.731 euro) (Editing by Dan Lalor) 

Read More »






Get Pregnant Naturally, Why Can’t I Get Pregnant Naturally?
Posted by admin on  September 14th, 2011 


OK so you’re trying for a baby but no matter what you do you just can’t seem to get pregnant naturally. That can put a strain on your relationship with your partner which in itself will not help you to conceive so it is normal that you should think of investigating why that should be.
Before we go into the details did you know that statistically if you are under 35 then you only have a 17% chance of having a baby if you have intercourse at the right time in your cycle. At the end of a year 80% of couples under 35 do end up conceiving and of the remainder 10% will manage to conceive within 2 years. the remaining 10% will not be able to conceive without some assistance.
As you get older the chance of you being able to get pregnant naturally will decline. those women under 40 will have an 8% chance of conception, if you’re over 40 and under 45 then that percentage drops to 3.5% and for over 45′s the chance is just 0.5%.
You can therefore see that age can be major barrier in your quest to get pregnant naturally.
We can split the common reasons for not being able to conceive into the 3 categories below:
Female issues: e.g.
1. sporadic ovulation frequency or no ovulations2. tubal obstruction3. fibroid, polyps or adhesions on the Uterus
Male issues: e.g.
1. low sperm count2. unusually shaped sperms3. inability for sperms to move spontaneously and actively
The third category is essentially an unknown category as in some cases it is possible for both parties not to suffer from any of the issues above yet they still find it impossible to conceive.
The good news is that despite the statistics above and even the issues highlighted it is still possible to have children so today is not the day to stop trying for a baby. we can therefore look at a few tips that will help you to conceive and have a baby.
One of the things that you should consider is what foods you are eating when you are trying to get pregnant naturally.
For example caffeine can cause your chances of conceiving being cut in half which when you consider the numbers already mentioned can be quite a large amount. a simple tip is therefore to stop drinking coffee, black tea and carbonated drinks that contain caffeine whilst you are trying to conceive.
Other food sources to keep an eye on are eggs, meats and dairy products. the simple tip here is to go organic so that you know that none of the foods have had any contact with any chemicals which may affect your chances of having a baby.
Another great tip is to give up alcohol whilst you are trying to get pregnant. You will know what happens when you have too much alcohol so naturally the same thing affects sperm which results in the sperm not being as viable as what would otherwise be the case. In women alcohol can imbalance the hormones on your body which doesn’t help when you need your body to be functioning at its maximum to have the conditions right for conception.
These are just some simple tips that can help you to get pregnant naturally.

Read More »





« Older Entries























  
 

 





Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011


Blogroll

Documentation
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet








Copyright © Shed Plans  - Learn How To Build A Shed,Patio
Powered by WordPress



