Texas wildfire torches 300 homes                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Texas wildfire torches 300 homes    Austin :  TX :  USA
| Sep 05, 2011
 
By Samantha86            1 0      
Views: 96
          A major wildfire in Texas is causing property and human life damage and there seems to be no end to the devastation at the moment Texas waits for rain impatiently, as the drought-stricken state is now faced with an even bigger danger of fire. A fast-growing wildfire is spreading across Texas, fanned by winds from the Tropical Storm Lee. What is needed by Texas from Lee at the moment, is rain, but instead what the state is getting are wild winds from this storm which are running a havoc. Already around 300 homes near Austin have been torched and thousands of people in hundreds of other homes had to evacuate overnight. The devastations caused by the Texas wildfires do not end there. It burned through 14,000 acres and was 16 miles long, posing a threat to an additional 700 homes in Bastrop County which lies just east of Austin. Even in the neighboring Travis County which lies to the north and west of Austin, the Texas wildfire has resulted in the evacuation of homes, some of which have already been burnt.  The Texas Forest Service Fire department is trying to get a grip of this situation and its Chief, Mark Stanford said that the situation was ‘catastrophic’. The department has deployed all of its resources but still the situation is way out of hand. The officials in Austin have asked for local media’s help in contacting every available firefighter in the area to help with controlling it.  So far, a number of people have been killed due to the fire but the exact number is still not known. In East Texas, a woman and her young child were killed when a fire gobbled up their home which is located 100 miles east of Dallas.  "We're a little on edge right now," Texas Forest Service spokesman Tom Berglund told Reuters on Sunday. "We have several fires that we thought we had put out, but these winds came up today and started them up again." The winds from the Tropical Storm Lee are not only spreading out the fires, but are also drying out any humidity from the air, making the situation worse and prompting officials to issue a ‘critical fire danger’ warning.  According to the details provided by Stanford, this devastating fire, which has run havoc throughout the state, was caused by ‘a juvenile burning love letters. "I think he was a little surprised that more than the letters ended up burning," he said. It is being hoped that the situation will be brought under control very soon.         1 of 1        
Tropical Storm Don moving northwest toward the south Texas coastal area
    
Samantha86 is based in New York City, New York, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (83.1%) Canada (5.2%) Russia (3.9%) Norway (2.6%) 3 other countries (2.6%)           READ MORE: texas wildfire, texas wildfire details, Texas wildfire death toll, Texas wildfire damages, texas fire, Texas wildfire location, wildfire, tropical storm, Winds, tropical, storm, Storm Lee, people, forest, Lee, fire   More News From: Austin :  TX :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                   Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Texas wildfires engulf more than 1000 homes By: jaded87      
The disastrous Texas wildfires have ended up destroying 1000 homes. These have been some of the most devastating wildfires in Texas history already with blazes still moving and 70% of the fires still to be contained. Last week, more than 180 fires erupted in several areas.
Thousands of people have been evacuated so far due to the wildfires. ...  7 days ago     Texas Firefighters Contain 30% Wildfires By: Ruby1204      There are some good and encouraging news coming from Texas. The firefighters were successful in containing 30% of wildfires. Keeping in mind the intensity of the fires and the large area where it was burning this is is really a commendable effort by the firefighters.
Nature was also very kind to nearly 1200 firefighters which included teams from ...  7 days ago     Texas does not get a grip on bushfires  By: nabeela2001      In Texas, the fires have destroyed about 700 houses. The authorities do not get the flames under control, the weather conditions could aggravate the situation even.
In the U.S. state of Texas authorities to get the severe bush fires in the handle.By Tuesday, more than 700 houses were destroyed, was due to the weather conditions were not ...  7 days ago     Wildfires rage across Texas for the 296th day! By: AmberCornelio      
Wildfires have been burning across the US state of Texas for
the 296th day, claiming over 1,000 homes in the process.  Recent fires have been fueled by the howling
winds brought on by nearby Tropical Storm Lee. 
The largest fire is reportedly near Austin and has spread
over some 33,000 acres and claimed two lives, forcing the ...  8 days ago     Bastrop Texas wildfire update By: mahlina       
Bastrop, Texas wildfire has destroyed almost 600 homes, setting a record for the highest number of homes lost in a single fire in Texas history. Firefighters are trying to bring the wind-fueled wildfire under control that has consumed more than 25, 000 acres of land and forced approximately 5,000 people to evacuate.
According to recent ...  8 days ago     (Photos) Texas Wildfire Devastation - Thousands of homes destroyed  By: kalex      Texas Wildfire Devastation seems not stopping and already Thousands of homes been destroyed and people been evacuated from the places.According to the Texas Forest Service about  600 houses been burned and destroyed in Bastrop County which is near Austin.
Helicopters and small planes been employed apart from firefighters to provide ...  8 days ago     Fire in Texas 1000 homes destroyed By: safdarjaved      Fire fighters in the American state of Texas are struggling to contain a huge wild fire. 
The fire which is twenty five kilometers wide has already destroyed more than one thousand  homes.
Powerful gusts from Tropical Storm Lee have been fanning the flames.  8 days ago     Hurricane Lee Leaves damages across South By: DetroitReports       
Hurricane Lee is reportedly responsible for spreading wild fires in Texas and creating tornadoes in Georgia. The Texas wildfires are spreading out of control and the alleged cause of a mother and her 18-month old child’s death, after flames burnt their small mobile home Sunday near Gladewate, east of Dallas.
At least 5,000 people were ...  8 days ago     Austin-area wildfire burns a record 476 residences in Texas By: aalees      
A huge wildfire east of the Texas
state capital of Austin
has destroyed 476 homes since Sunday and is still ablaze out of control.
 
"I'm still seeing no containment," said April Saginor,
public information officer for the Texas Forest Service, who confirmed that the
Bastrop County Complex Fire has scorched more than 25,000 acres and ...  8 days ago     Texas fires getting uncontrolable By: ahq26       
It is reported from Texas the Firefighters in
drought-stricken are struggling to contain this fire to 16-mile-wide (26-km) in
this regard it is stated that wildfire has destroyed almost Five Hundred homes.
Administrators said the fire had "grown significantly"
on Monday and was now burning on 25,000 acres of Texas.
Texas Governor Rick ...  9 days ago     Texas wildfire destroys more than 500 homes By: jaded87      
A violent wildfire triggered in a barren farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday and went unchecked. The wildfire ended up destroying almost 500 homes as it spread rapidly across the area.
The wildfire was further instigated by the howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee that fanned the fire even more.
According to ...  9 days ago     Two dead, 1000 homes burned, updates (Video) By: StephEaly      Update:  
UTC (GMT) Tuesday, September 6, 2011 at 20:25:00
With well over 1,000 homes burned in the drought sun-scorched Texas, residents near the Austin area can only wait and hope their home wasn't one of them Tuesday.  
Now CBS is reporting that over 57 wildfires   9 days ago     Fierce Texas wildfire destroys almost 350 homes! By: darjee      An horrible wildfire southeast of Texas, destroyed alomost 350 homes, scorched severals of acres and stretched across a 18 mile area Monday morning.
Another blaze in eastern Texas killed a mother and her 18-month old child when flames burnt their mobile small home Sunday near Gladewater, the Gregg County Sheriff's Dept said.
Officials said low ...  9 days ago     "Lee" fades and becomes a tropical depression By: kingston23      The storm was the storm that "Lee" faded and became a tropical depression.However, Lee continues to cause heavy rains and flooding in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.The National Hurricane Center U.S. reported that the tropical depression was located 90 kilometers west-southwest of McComb in Mississippi, with maximum sustained winds of 55 kph.The NHC ...  10 days ago     Wildfire erupts in Central and East Texas By: kalex      Wildfire erupts in central and East Texas because of heavy wind created by the Tropical Storm Lee.The National weather service gave red alert to these areas as Winds were coming  from the north to northeast part at about  30 miles per hour which may erupts more fire as the Humidity also increasing and is near about 20%.
People were ...  10 days ago     Tropical Storm Lee Drifts Just Off Louisiana By: skooter      Skooter reporting 09/04/11
Tropical Storm Lee is circling very close to the
southern Louisiana coastline and is now a bit
puny even as it unloads heavy rain, the National Hurricane
Center said.
Torrential rain and gusty winds from Tropical Storm Lee knocked out power to
thousands in Louisiana and Mississippi on Saturday and forced
...  11 days ago     The tropical storm approaching towards U.S.  By: lalag      The storm is gaining strength, and if it does not change the trajectory of motion, then on Friday to reach the Texas coastTropical storm 'Don' could soon cover the U.S. state of Texas. Before he left the coast less than 900 kilometers. According to ITAR-TASS, the storm could reach the U.S. on Friday.According to meteorologists, the wind speed at ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Much of Texas on wildfire alert  
Austin America-Statesman/Texas Longhorns
 The passage of a cool front through Texas and Tropical Storm Lee to the east generated gusty winds across much of Texas, fanning scattered wildfires in the parched region. The National Weather Service says South, Central and East Texas are all "red...    Wildfires erupt again in parts of parched Texas  
Charlotte Observer Online
 Wildfires continued to spread Sunday across East and Central Texas due partly to high winds caused by Tropical Storm Lee and the passage of a cool front, authorities said. Local and state firefighting crews scrambled to contain the blazes, which have...    Winds fuel flare-ups in Palo Pinto County, across state  
Fort Worth Star Telegram
 Strong north winds fueled wildfire flare-ups around Possum Kingdom Lake on Sunday and firefighters managed to contain most of them, but the rest of Texas wasn't as lucky as thousands of acres and hundreds of homes burned in another day of the worst...    “Monster” Wildfires Devour Texas: 500 Homes Destroyed in Bastrop [...  
International Business Times
 Text Size A cloud of smoke rises from a wildfire as it burns out of control near Bastrop Firefighters tried to contain a raging wildfire that engulfed thousands of acres of drought-stricken areas of Texas Monday. The wildfire devoured hundreds of...    Strong winds whip central TX wildfires  
CNN
 Strong winds whipped up several wildfires in central Texas Sunday, threatening homes and forcing some residents to evacuate. The largest of the fires is in Bastrop County, southeast of Austin, said Lexi Maxwell, a spokeswoman with the Texas Forest...    Texas Wildfires Could Worsen Monday  
KSAZ
 Wildfires burning in central Texas could spread Monday, and new blazes were likely to erupt, despite cooler temperatures across the state, the National Weather Service (NWS) said. "The combination of the dry brush, gusty winds, and low humidities...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Tropical Storm Don moving ...    Tropical Storm Don moving ... Image Source: www.afp.com Tropical Storm Don moving northwest toward the south Texas coastal area      More Related Images    More From Austin          The Texas Health Care System        Men More Apt To Forgive Lesbian Affair        Progress and frustrations in historic Texas wildfire        Rick Perry Shorts Fire Fighters          Texas wildfires engulf more than 1000 homes        Rick Perry, Faces The Test Of Leadership In Real Time With Wildfires In Texas         Several killed in forest fires in Texas         Texas does not get a grip on bushfires           Aftermath of Tropical Storm Lee        Thousands Evacuated as Wildfire Destroys More Than 1,000 Homes in Texas.        Videos: Massive Wildfires continue to sweep acrossTexas        Rick Perry and The Tea Party A Threat To The Constitution          1000 dwelling destroyed in fires                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10249169          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 12 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 50       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 2       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10249169), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10249169 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10249169 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Texas wildfire torches 300 homes” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10249169-texas-wildfire-torches-300-homes.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         