Half of federal prisoners are Hispanic, says government report | The American Independent

The American Independent




















The washington Independent
 Blackwater Took Hundreds of Guns From U.S. Military, Afghan Police 


The washington Independent
 Media Pushes 'Rift' Between McChrystal and Obama   


The washington Independent
 Panetta Breaks From Bush in Senate Hearing 


The washington Independent
 Federal bill that would tackle poverty to improve student results introduced 


The washington Independent
 'N-Word' Sign Dogs Would-Be Tea Party Leader 




 Sign up for our email newsletter

rss
facebook
twitter

Switch to our mobile site






 


HOME
STATES

Colorado
Florida
Iowa
Michigan
Minnesota
New Mexico
Texas
Washington, DC


ISSUES

Civil Rights
Economy/Finance
Education
Elections/Campaigns
Environment/Energy
Government Accountability/Reform
Immigration
Health Care
Justice/Civil Liberties
Labor
LGBT
Media
National Security
Politics
Religion
Reproductive Rights


CONGRESS
2012
VIDEO
ABOUT





 Top Stories  
Barney Frank: Some Federal Reserve leaders ‘selected with no public scrutiny or confirmation’

By Nicolas Mendoza | 
		09.14.11

The Federal Open Market Committee, the guiding policy committee of the Federal Reserve, is gaining increasing attention from lawmakers and politicians on both sides of the aisle. Conservatives like Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) have dominated discussion over the Fed, with their accusations of currency devaluation and the “inflation tax.” More…


‘Response’ endorser says event healed Native American cannibal curse

By Mary Tuma | 
		09.14.11

“The Response,” Gov. Rick Perry’s August prayer rally, not only brought thousands of Christians to pray for a “nation in crisis,” but also broke the curse of Native American cannibalism, said Cindy Jacobs, a self-proclaimed prophet and an endorser of the event. More…


Charges of ethnic profiling emerge following 9/11 terror scare in Detroit

By Ed Brayton | 
		09.14.11 | The Michigan Messenger

One of the three people pulled off a Frontier Airlines flight after landing at Detroit Metro Airport on the 10th anniversary of 9/11 is speaking out, blaming the entire situation on jittery passengers who feared them because of their ethnicity. More…

 Advertisement



 




 

 2012 presidential election
abortion
Barack Obama
BP
budget
Campaign Finance
Colorado
Colorado CD7
Colorado Governor
Colorado Senate
Congress
deepwater horizon
Economy/Finance
Environment/Energy
Florida
Florida Governor
Florida Senate
Harry Reid
illegal immigration
Immigration
Iowa
LGBT
Michele Bachmann
Michigan
Minnesota
Minnesota Governor
New Mexico
news clips
Obama
oil spill
Politics
President Obama
Rick Perry
Rick Scott
Rick Snyder
Same-sex Marriage
Susana Martinez
Tallahassee
Tea Party
Terry Branstad
Texas Headlines
Tim Pawlenty
U.S. House
U.S. Senate
unemployment 


 
Half of federal felony offenders in 2011 have been Hispanic, says government report
 

By Nicolas Mendoza | 
		09.07.11 | 3:39 pm


Comments 

Tweet

Share


A majority of people imprisoned by the federal government for felonies in 2011 have been Hispanic, according to a report by the U.S. Sentencing Commission. The Associated Press reports:
Hispanics reached a new milestone for the first time this year, making up the majority all federal felony offenders sentenced in the first nine months of fiscal year 2011, according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission.
Hispanics comprised 50.3 percent of all people sentenced in that time period, blacks 19.7 percent and whites 26.4 percent.
In comparison, last year Hispanics made up just 16 percent of the whole U.S. population.
The commission’s statistics also reveal that sentences for felony immigration crimes — which include illegal crossing and other crimes such as alien smuggling — were responsible for most of the increase in the number of Hispanics sent to prison over the last decade.
The reason that a majority of new federal prisoners are Hispanic is because the offenses which the federal government is most involved in policing are disproportionately enforced against Hispanics and other minorities, said Marc Mauer, executive director of the Sentencing Project, a group that works towards reform of the criminal justice system.
“A lot of it is a function of policy and practice,” Mauer told The American Independent. “Both immigration cases and drug cases are fairly discretionary in terms of enforcement. If there’s a bank robbery or a murder it doesn’t really matter where it happens, there will be a serious attempt at enforcement. When it comes to immigration and drug-related offenses, there will be a decision as far as how much enforcement there should be.”
In the case of drug laws, Mauer said, although it’s been shown that drug use is fairly evenly spread throughout the population, enforcement is much more likely to impact “low-income communities of color.”
As for immigration, the past decade has seen an unprecedented amount of federal enforcement of immigration-related offenses, resulting in both record numbers of deportations and a backlog of cases in immigration courts. Huge racial disparities in federal prisons and detention centers have followed as a result.



Comments 

Tweet

Share










Comments




Name:



Email:

Never published

Comment:










Categories & Tags:
Civil Rights | Immigration | Justice/Civil Liberties  | federal prisons | hispanic | sentencing commission | war on drugs |  
		



 Top Video 


Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa
Steve King wants congressional hearings on Obama’s ‘drunken Uncle Omar’
‘Response’ endorser says event healed Native American cannibal curse
  





AINN Affiliates 
The American Independent News Network:
Coloradocoloradoindependent.com
Floridafloridaindependent.com
Iowaiowaindependent.com
Michiganmichiganmessenger.com
Minnesotaminnesotaindependent.com
New Mexiconewmexicoindependent.com
Texastxindependent.com





Home
About The Texas Independent
About Us
Contact the Texas Editor
Email Newsletter Signup
Contact
Terms of Use
Advertising
Yellow Pages

© 2011 The American Independent News Network














Switch to our mobile site

























