Thousands Evacuated As Wildfire Destroys More Than 1,000 Homes In Texas | Fox News





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










U.S. HOME
		  
		      
		          



Crime
		  
		      
		          



Economy
		  
		      
		          



Immigration
		  
		      
		          



Disasters
		  
		      
		          



National Interest
		  
		      
		          



Terror
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Religion
		  
		      
		          



Education
		  
		      
		          



Road to Recovery
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   Disasters - US
Thousands Evacuated as Wildfire Destroys More Than 1,000 Homes in Texas




Published September 06, 2011 | Associated Press

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet









One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.
More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day.
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee's winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 45 square miles, forced the evacuation of thousands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four.
"We lost everything," said Willie Clements, whose two-story colonial home in a housing development near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames.
On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, "United We Stand."
"This is the beginning of our new family album," the 51-year-old Clements said.
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tuesday, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, which is about 25 miles from Austin.
"Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," he said. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening's Republican presidential debate in California, explaining that he was "substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of." But campaign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there.
Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being putting to use. Fort Hood was battling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze.
"It's more difficult than it should be to get those types of assets freed up by the federal government," Perry said. "When you've got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to. If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping be part of the solution, that's a problem."
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to Texas to help with the latest outbreak, and "we will continue to work closely with the state and local emergency management officials as their efforts to contain these fires."
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including members of local departments from around the state and crews from such places as Utah, California, Arizona and Oregon, many of them arriving after Texas put out a call for help. More firefighters will join the battle once they have been registered and sent where they are needed.
Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of water at a time from lakes also took part in the fight.
"We're getting incredible support from all over the country, federal and state agencies," said Mark Stanford, operations director for the Texas Forest Service.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen.
The fire in Bastrop County is easily the single most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said state wildfire records go back only to the late 1990s.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. At least six homes were lost in a fire 40 percent contained. In far Northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.
Many of the buildings destroyed in the Bastrop fire were modest, single-story homes in housing developments. Others were expensive ranch homes, set off by themselves.
In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. Some homes survived; others were gone.
The Postal Service delivered mail to homes that had burned to the ground; only the mailboxes were left stand.
Residents were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods.
"We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this," said Dave Wilhelm, who lives just east of Bastrop. "All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left."
Wilhelm returned on Tuesday to find his neighbor's house and three vehicles gone. Some of his children's backyard toys were destroyed, but the Wilhelm house was spared.
"Some stuff is smoldering on the lot behind us," he said. "Inside of the house, we smell like a campfire. We're definitely very lucky."
John Chapman's home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.
As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a '57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: "You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh."
"The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I'm not going to worry about it," he said.
For Perry, the crisis carries both opportunity and risk, said Todd Harris, a Republican consultant who has worked on a number of presidential campaigns.
"It gives Perry an opportunity to demonstrate leadership, to demonstrate decisiveness and at the same time empathy and caring, which are four qualities that most voters look for in a president," Harris said.
But he added: "You can't do anything that looks sounds, or smells even remotely political. If it looks like you are taking advantage of a disaster and trying to use it for political purposes, it will backfire and you'll be worse off than if you hadn't done anything."
About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige.
A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires.
"The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."

Related Video





Gov. Rick Perry Talks Wildfires, 2012 Race
Texas governor on 'Fox & Friends'


Related Stories
Parched Conditions Fuel Southern California Wildfires; 650 Homes Threatened


Related Video





Weather Modification to Ease Texas Drought?
What is cloud seeding and will it work?


Related Video





Deadly Wildfires Scorch Texas
Firefighters race to save homes, lives




Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article

















Advertisement














WATCH: Justin Bieber Crusades Against Texting While Driving (Is It a For-Profit Career Move?)

July 19, 2011




Bride Wears Gown For Mugshot Following Wedding Day Arrest

July 19, 2011




Cat Stabs Man (Or So He Says)

July 19, 2011




Ford Expands F-150 Pickup Recall to Nearly 1.2 Million Vehicles

April 14, 2011




15 Most Annoying Things About Flying The Unfriendly Skies

July 19, 2011











Latest Videos







Break in Case of Missing Utah Mom?
		      
		          
		              








Across America: Transformer Explodes Outside Chicago
		      
		          
		              





More ›









Trending  in U.S.


1

Police Find Unidentified Remains in Search for Missing Utah Mom
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Memorials Set as Ex-Marine Gets Medal of Honor
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

Archie Comics Announces Gay Character Will Marry -- Will Anyone Object?
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

Suspect Tells Court 'Usama Is Alive' in Case of Attempted Christmas Day Jet Bombing
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

Pennsylvania Mom Who Lost Job After Donating Kidney Is Put Back on Salary
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends













Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies
		  
		      
		  
		


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey
		  
		      
		  
		


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness
		  
		      
		  
		


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party
		  
		      
		  
		


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed
		  
		      
		  
		











Advertisement
















Introducing DailyFinance's New Portfolio Experience


Walmart Woos Women; Ladies, Watch Your Backs


Used Car Buyers Beware: Flood-Damaged Vehicles Will Hit the Market Soon


Homeowners Shelve Remodeling Plans Over Economic Fears


Popcorn Throwdown: 3-D Flicks Getting Massacred


















Peterson and Nadler: A Blue-State Bailout in Disguise


Orin Kerr: Should Faking a Name on Facebook Be a Felony?


Herman Cain: My Plan to Revive Economic Growth


Mediscare Flops


The Solar Orphan


















Cabby ‘stole from rider’


Hubby ‘killer’ near faint


19-year-old charged with shooting toddler in the face in Staten Island


‘Bars’ mitzvah


$3M slap for 9/11-fund scammer


















U.K. Aug. Retail Sales Fall; Riot Impact Unknown


Global regulators deepen anti-market abuse ties


SNB Repeats Commitment To Weaker Swiss Franc


UBS trader in $2 billion loss on unauthorized trade


Groupon IPO back on track: report


















Wal-Mart Pledging $5B to Women's Businesses Annually


Tweet Business of the Day: Pi Pizzeria


King-Size Marketing Lessons for Small Business


Tips for Starting a Business in an Volatile Economy


Small Business Confidence Sinks, Lowest Since March 2010


















Gunman In Courthouse Shooting Dies


Law-Breaking Gumby Reunited With The Pokey


Missing Autistic Boy, 8, Found In Wilderness


Flying Horse Sentenced For Stabbing Man At His Birthday Party


Eel Swims Up Man's Penis, Has to Be Surgically Removed

















Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








