Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees – USATODAY.com
 Skip to Main Content 



USA TODAY
Weather








Subscribe
Mobile






Home
News
Travel
Money
Sports
Life
Your Life
Tech
Weather




Weather:
Weather Now

 U.S. Forecasts 
  Int'l Forecasts 
  Daily Highs and Lows 


|
Maps

 Current Weather 
  Radar 
  Satellite 
  Precipitation 
  Temperatures 
  Thunderstorms 
  Alerts


|
Storm Center
|
Weather/Climate Science

  Weather and Climate Science Home 
  Climate Change 
  Hurricanes 
  Tornadoes 
  Thunderstorms 
  Lightning 
  Floods and Droughts 
  Winter Weather 
 Climatology 


|
Photo Galleries

  Reader submitted photos 
 This week in weather 


|
Interactive Graphics

  Atmospheric optics 
 El Nino / La Nina 
  Fall foliage 
  Global warming 
  Hurricanes 
  Lake-effect snow 
  Lake freezing
  Lightning 
  Natural disasters
  Tornadoes 
  Winter storms














Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees




Updated 






Comments


52














BASTROP, Texas
(AP)

–
Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in reopened neighborhoods.

Find a Forecast
 
Find your local weather with The Weather Channel zip-code lookup:













By Adam Sacasa, APJason Birdwell of the Ferris Fire Department hoses down a home in Jefferson, Texas, on Thursday.EnlargeCloseBy Adam Sacasa, APJason Birdwell of the Ferris Fire Department hoses down a home in Jefferson, Texas, on Thursday.Firefighters focused on extinguishing hotspots and had isolated remaining flames from the blaze that has burned for almost a week in and around the city of Bastrop, destroying nearly 1,400 homes and sweeping across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape."We believe the forward progress (of the fire) has been stopped, thank God for that," Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst told evacuated residents gathered at the fire command center.PHOTOS: Texas wildfires destroy homesStill, thousands of evacuees were prevented from returning to their homes for a sixth day because trees continued to burn underground, loose power lines hung from scorched poles and more than 800 firefighters were working to tamp down the remainder of the fire 25 miles east of Austin."It's just really frustrating," said Dee Redenius, 40, who came to the fire command center for answers. "You want to know if your house is there or if it's not. … They don't let you in, you know. You can't get assistance."Dewhurst said the state is working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state emergency management personnel on specific fire declarations. FEMA spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said on Friday the agency "received the first request from the governor for individual aid to help Texas residents whose homes were damaged or destroyed in the fires, or who suffered other personal losses."She said FEMA would "work with the White House to review this request as expeditiously as possible."Dewhurst also made a public plea for President Obama to make a major disaster declaration that he said would remove red tape and give the state access to more resources. Hours later, White House officials announced that Obama had signed a declaration declaring a major disaster exists in Texas.The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs."We need help yesterday … Mr. President, we need a statewide disaster declaration right away," Dewhurst said prior to Obama's declaration.Texas is in the midst of its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.The Texas Forest Service said Friday that the Bastrop fire had racked up a bill of at least $1.2 million so far. But the agency cautioned the figure was an early estimate and was expected to climb. The early price tag includes firefighting costs but not damage caused by the blaze.A DC-10 jet originally meant to dump fire retardant on the Central Texas wildfires was diverted Friday to help firefighters with a stubborn 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties northwest of Houston. The fire in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties forced some people in the area to leave their homes, but was not threatening any towns or cities, Texas Forest Service spokesman Ralph Collum said.In Bastrop, tables set up at the entrance to a neighborhood that had reopened a day earlier filled up with donated clothing and toiletries. A first aid station was assembled and streets began to buzz with tree-trimming crews and building contractors.Officials also announced that schools would reopen Monday. But Bastrop Independent School District superintendent Steve Murray said, "We anticipate the homeless student count in Bastrop ISD to triple, quadruple or even more."To deal with that, school officials were developing plans to pick up students at hotels, shelters and other locations.Monica Turner, 34, was growing more frustrated every day. She had seen photographs of her family's house in ashes."We have pictures, but pictures don't do any good when you need to have closure and you need to see it face to face," she said. "I need to have that closure so that I can go and move on."Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

For more information about reprints & permissions, visit our FAQ's. To report corrections and clarifications, contact Standards Editor Brent Jones. For publication consideration in the newspaper, send comments to letters@usatoday.com. Include name, phone number, city and state for verification. To view our corrections, go to corrections.usatoday.com.


Posted  | Updated 













We've updated the Conversation Guidelines. Changes include a brief review of the moderation process and an explanation on how to use the "Report Abuse" button. Read more.




















Advertisement


Most Popular
Stories


Calmer winds to slow growth of Minn....
Drought threatens way of life for Texas...
Tropical Storm Maria turns north in the...
Dallas sets record with 70th 100-degree day
7 oil workers found alive in Gulf of Mexico

Videos
Next-gen NASA manned rocket unveiledStudents unearth 9/11 time capsule, read lettersLegal Sea Foods: Save The Crab adPlastic or cosmetic surgeon?  Part ILegal Sea Foods: Save The Trout ad
Photos
Tropical Storm LeeThe week in weatherHurricane IreneRainbows after the stormFlooding across Midwest, South



Most Popular E-mail Newsletter


Sign up to get:
Top viewed stories, photo galleries and community posts of the day

Most popular right now:





Photo Gallery: The week in weather

The week's best weather photos from around the world.
Weather: Stormcenter





USA TODAY Digital Services

Mobile
E-Newsletters
RSS
Twitter
Podcasts
Widgets
e-Edition
 USA TODAY for iPad
Kindle Edition
Print Edition
Subscribe to paper


Reprints & Permissions
USA TODAY Topics
Reporter Index
Corrections/Clarifications
Contact Us
Archives







Home
News
Travel
Money
Sports
Life
Tech
Weather


Visit our Partners:
USA WEEKEND
USA TODAY LIVE
Sports Weekly
Education
Space.com
Travel Tips



Contact us
Advertise
Pressroom
Media Lounge
Jobs
FAQ
Reprints/Permissions
Privacy Notice/Your California Privacy Rights
Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Site Index

© 2011 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.


















