'No Containment' Yet of Raging Texas Wildfire - National - The Atlantic Wire
























Entertainment




Give Cameron Crowe's Zoo Movie a Chance



Politics




Rick Perry Is 'The Conservative Id'



National




American Apparel Can't Take a Fat Joke



Technology




Hold Your Excitement for Microsoft's New Blue Screen of Death 



Politics




Cocaine, Affairs and Other Crazy Stuff in the New Palin Book



Politics




The Left's Solyndra Damage Control





















Latest Stories

















Presented By


















Politics


Business


Entertainment


Technology


National


Global




Open Wire


All topics







Search














Tweet









Share



Print article



Email article



Have a hot tip? A story we missed?Tell us on theOpen Wire 








Reuters
'No Containment' Yet of Raging Texas Wildfire



John Hudson 
Sep 06, 2011
681 Views
Comments




	Nearly 500 houses have been destroyed in Central Texas as firefighters continue to struggle with the wind-fueled wildfire that has forced the evacuation of thousands of Texas residents from their homes and has been blamed for at least two deaths. As of this morning, the director of the Texas Forest Service tells CBS News "there's no containment right now" and that "no one on the face of this Earth has ever fought fires in these extreme conditions." Central Texas has been bereft of any major rainfall for a year and forecasters don't indicate any relief in the immediate future. Since December, fires have devoured 3.5 million acres of the Lone Star State.  "We've been in a defensive mode for a couple of days now, and really all you can do is get people out of the way, protect homes where you can, and make sure our firefighters are safe," Texas Forest Service Director Tom Boggus tells CBS. Shelters have been set up around the affected areas which include Bastrop County, about 25 miles east of Austin. At least 5,000 people have been evacuated from their homes. On Monday, Texas Governor and GOP presidential candidate Rick Perry cut short a campaign event in South Carolina to return to his state. "I'll be real honest with you I'm not paying any attention to politics right now," he said. "There's plenty of time to take care of that. People's lives and their possessions are in danger. That's substantially more important." Reporting from Bastrop County this morning, NBC affiliate KXAN news has coverage from the fires:



	Associated Press photographers also captured images of the fire raging yesterday:






	Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments
		or send an email to the author at 
		jhudson at theatlantic dot com.
	
	You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire.

	
		
		

John Hudson





Topics: 
Texas, 
			
			Rick Perry, 
			
			Natural Disasters



Tweet









				Related Articles
			
 

				More by John Hudson








Texas Republicans Can't Wait to Harangue Obama







Rick Perry Will Return to a Texas With 1,300 Fewer Homes







Governor Rick Perry Declares Three Days of Prayer for Rain


 





The Highly Litigious World of Hollywood Trade Publishing







The Left's Solyndra Damage Control






















User Comments
Please type your comment and click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be prompted to log in or register



View the discussion thread.



Atlantic

'Culture': Leading Scientists Explore the Social Purpose of Art
The Link Between Vaccine-Maker Merck and Rick Perry's Campaign
An Airline Captain, Plus the Germans, on Flying While Brown
A Massive Jewish Vote Overreaction

More from the Atlantic


BuzzFeed






More from Buzzfeed



AdWeek

MOG Challenges Spotify With Free Music
Ad Buyers on AOL-Microsoft-Yahoo Deal: What’s In It for Us?
No Buffy Bump for CW's 'Ringer'
Saatchi, Toyota Sued for $10 Million Over Stalking Prank

More from the AdWeek















The Wire to Go
















Five Best Columns


Sam Youngman on Obama, Scot Lehigh on infrastructure banks, The New York Times on Nadal, and more 

Get Five Best Columns in your inbox each morning:
	Subscribe to our email newsletter (preview)




I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.



Email Address









































Have a story we missed? A link we have to click?  A sharp opinion about the news?  Instead of waiting for us to post it, tell us on the Open Wire.
Submit your news and ideas | See all reader posts


Most Clicked

Cocaine, Affairs, and the Other Crazy Stuff in the New Palin Book
13-Year-Old Looks at Trees, Makes Solar Power Breakthrough
Here's Why You'll Ditch Your iPad for Windows 8 
American Apparel Can't Take a Fat Joke
Jon Stewart Has Had It with How Fox Talks About Class Warfare
Gawker: Bill O'Reilly Had His Wife's Cop Boyfriend Investigated by Cops
There's a Potential Cure for Cancer in Indian Food
Vaccine Maker Gave Rick Perry $30,000 Plus a Whole Lot More
Saudi Prince Faces Rape Charge in Spain, Again
Michele Bachmann: Hurricane Is God's Way of Saying 'Cut Spending'



A Year Ago on the Wire
Fashion Snark Battle: NYC vs San Francisco




Facebook









Reddit













About the Wire
The Atlantic Wire is your authoritative guide to the news and ideas that matter most right now. Our team tracks newsmakers and opinions across the entire media spectrum: newspapers, web sites, television, radio and magazines.
But we do more than just collect information. By synthesizing, analyzing and summarizing what’s out there, and adding new information when we can, we are a news engine that gives you a quick and valuable account of the issues of the day.


The Wire to Go

iPhone app
RSS
Facebook
Twitter



Subscribe to our Newsletter
Get Five Best Columns in your inbox each morning (preview)




I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.



Email Address









































Open Wire
Have a hot tip? A story we missed? Tell us on the Open Wire
Contact Us
How to send us editorial or technical feedback


The Atlantic

FAQ
Subscribe
Merchandise
Jobs
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Advertise with The Atlantic
Follow The Atlantic

The Atlantic Media Company

The Atlantic
National Journal
Government Executive



Copyright © 2011 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All rights reserved.
















