
      Texas plans to cut budget of agency battling fires
| Reuters







 







Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Technology
Media
Small Business
Green Business
Legal
Deals
Earnings
Summits
Business Video




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
M&A
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
Futures
Funds
peHUB




World



World Home
U.S.
Brazil
China
Euro Zone
Japan
Mexico
Russia
Afghan Journal
Africa Journal
India Insight
Global News Journal
Pakistan: Now or Never?
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Front Row Washington
Politics Video




Technology



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video




Opinion



Opinion Home
Chrystia Freeland
Felix Salmon
Breakingviews
George Chen
Bernd Debusmann
Gregg Easterbrook
James Pethokoukis
James Saft
John Wasik
Christopher Whalen
Ian Bremmer
Mohamed El-Erian
Lawrence Summers
The Great Debate
Unstructured Finance
Newsmaker
MuniLand




Money



Money Home
Analyst Research
Global Investing
MuniLand
Reuters Money
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life & Culture



Health
Sports
Arts
Faithworld
Business Traveler
Left Field
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video

























































Article
Comments (1)
























































Follow Reuters

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
YouTube








					Read



Scarlett Johansson naked pictures leaked on Web
| 


14 Sep 2011 
UBS says $2 billion rogue trade suspect held in London
| 


7:02am EDT 
Nude Scarlett Johansson Photos Pop Up Online -- FBI's Hot on the Trail

14 Sep 2011 
Nicolas Cage awoken by naked man with Fudgesicle

14 Sep 2011 
EU warned of credit crunch threat, French banks hit
| 


14 Sep 2011 












					Discussed



154
Al Gore in 24-hour broadcast to convert climate skeptics
128
Number of poor hit record 46 million in 2010
55
Obama confronts jobs ”crisis” with $447 billion plan










					Watched









Scarlett's naked pics, Tyler Perry is highest paid
Wed, Sep 14 2011




Crowd lifts burning car, saves motorcycle crash victim
Tue, Sep 13 2011




Buenos Aires Fashion week sizzles
Mon, Aug 22 2011










Texas plans to cut budget of agency battling fires







Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










Related News


Ryan pushes spending cuts as U.S. hits debt limitMon, May 16 2011Special report: What triggered oil's greatest routMon, May 9 2011Libyan forces destroy Misrata fuel tanks: rebelsSat, May 7 2011Pakistan threatens U.S. on cooperation if more raidsThu, May 5 2011Democrats, Republicans edge closer on debt dealThu, May 5 2011




Analysis & Opinion


Muni sweeps: Investing in shared infrastructure

Pakistan and questions over foreign aid







Related Topics


U.S. »



















High winds and high temperatures are adding to the problems firefighters are facing as a wildfire rages out of control on FM 207 near Strawn, Texas April 19, 2011. 
Credit: Reuters/Tim Sharp






By Ben Wermund

AUSTIN, Tex | 
        Thu May 19, 2011 10:16am EDT


AUSTIN, Tex (Reuters) - Texas lawmakers are set to slash funding for the agency responsible for fighting wildfires in the midst of a historic wildfire season in which some 2.5 million acres have burned.
The Texas Forest Service faces almost $34 million in budget cuts over the next two years, roughly a third of the agency's total budget. The cuts are in both the House and Senate versions of the proposed state budget.The Forest Service has about 200 firefighters and offers assistance grants to volunteer fire departments. Assistance grants are likely to take the biggest hit.Volunteers -- two of whom were killed in fighting this year's fires -- make up nearly 80 percent of the state's fire-fighting force and are first responders to roughly 90 percent of wildfires in Texas."Volunteer programs are our No. 1 defense," Forest Service Director Tom Boggus told Reuters.Since 2002, the Forest Service has given out $153 million in grants, which have paid for 44,000 sets of protective clothing, 1,200 fire engines and funded the training of about 34,000 firefighters.A state commission that reviewed the Forest Service this year noted the grants were not distributed to the counties most at risk for wildfires. Boggus said that is because the service only recently conducted a study to determine which counties are the most at-risk, and that the agency now plans to distribute grants based on that information.Chris Barron, executive director of the State Firemen's and Fire Marshals' Association, said volunteer fire departments rely heavily on grant funding. He said $135 million in requests are backlogged from volunteer fire departments."That alone should say that the departments out there greatly need the funding," he told Reuters."Stuff in the fire service is not cheap," Barron added.He said many volunteer fire departments already have worn-down equipment and without funding for new equipment, response times will almost certainly increase.Barron also works for a volunteer fire department in South Austin that sent a truck to West Texas to battle the Rock House fire that burned more than 200,000 acres last month. He said the truck needed repairs after the trip, which wasn't unusual."It's just the wear and tear of fire departments trying to help each other out," Barron said.But Texas, which has a two-year budget cycle, has a shortfall of up to $27 billion for 2012-2013. Talmadge Heflin, director of the Center for Fiscal Policy at the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation, said everybody should share in the cuts."We understand the difficulty they have had in dealing with almost unprecedented numbers of fires this year," said Heflin, a former state representative. "We also understand that in order to balance the budget, everybody needs to endure some reductions."Heflin told Reuters there are discretionary funds in the governor's office for emergencies which could be used to help fight wildfires."We feel they'll be able to handle whatever's thrown at them," he said.(Editing by Corrie MacLaggan and Peter Bohan)

U.S.








Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Reprints









We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


fromthecenter wrote:
        No worries,  the governor will just pray for rain down there and everything will be ok. 
May 19, 2011 12:47pm EDT  --  Report as abuse


This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »




Social Stream (What's this?)









































 








 
 

 
 

 






  


Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index
Mobile

Legal

Bankruptcy Law
California Legal
New York Legal
Securities Law
Support & Contact

Contact Us
Advertise With Us


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Newsletters

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use





Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us



 


Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































