Texas wildfire destroys more than 500 homes                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Texas wildfire destroys more than 500 homes    Austin :  TX :  USA
| Sep 06, 2011
 
By jaded87            1 0      
Views: 132
          A violent wildfire triggered in a barren farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday and went unchecked. The wildfire ended up destroying almost 500 homes as it spread rapidly across the area. The wildfire was further instigated by the howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee that fanned the fire even more. According to authorities, mandatory evacuations were ordered in Bastrop County, east of Austin, and almost 5000 people were forced to leave their homes. Bastrop County is located almost 25 miles or 40 kilometers east of Austin. Officials have reported that almost 400 emergency shelters have been established. The wildfire resulted in huge clouds of smoke soaring in the sky and hung over town of Bastrop, Austin. The Texas wildfire has burnt as much as 25000 acres of land so far - along a line that stretches about 16 miles, according to Texas Forest Service officials. Firefighters are trying to contain the fire, but so far they have struggled to gain a control over it. They lined up a state highway outside the torn of Bastrop. Rescue operations are underway through helicopters and planes loaded with water. Increasing winds are resulting in the flames flaring up and popping over the tops of trees. 250 firefighters are currently deployed for the rescue operations. The firefighters are working round the clock. They are using bulldozers and pumper trucks against the fire as reported by Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald. No injuries and fatalities have been reported so far. According to officials, no residents have reported to be trapped in their houses. On Sunday, a moving wildfire resulted in the tragic death of a 20-year-old woman and her 18-month-old baby when the fire engulfed their mobile home. The fire was ablaze about 200 miles northeast in Gladewater, but it was put out on Monday. Several blazes continued to burn in at least four other counties in Central and North Texas areas. According to Mike Fischer, the Bastrop County emergency management director, the fire is "nowhere near control." He also said that an alarming, smaller blaze was increasing in size in the south of the city. "Waiting is the most frustrating thing," said 47-year-old Gina Thurman, an analyst for the Texas Workforce Commission, choking back tears as she sat by herself in the shade on a curb outside Ascension Catholic Church, one of several shelter sites. "You're sitting there and you don't know anything but your house is probably burning."        1 of 31        
People watch as a wildfire burns out of control near Bastrop
         
jaded87 is based in Lancaster, California, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (79.8%) Canada (6.1%) Pakistan (6.1%) France (3.0%) 4 other countries (3.0%)           READ MORE: texas wildfire, wildfire, texas, firefighters, tropical storm, Winds, Storm Lee, tropical, forest, people, fire   More News From: Austin :  TX :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                   Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Forest Fire crosses freeway in Bastrop, TX  By: ansari1      A central Texas forest fire in Bastrop on highway 21 crosses the freeway after winds from Tropical Storm Lee caused an extreme fire alert in Central Texas. The fire was shooting out from the trees however they can only be seen in a few parts of the video. The Bastrop police department shut down the freeway shortly after this video was taken  8 days ago     Texas history’s worst wildfire is finally slowing down By: wendyzachary      
Bastrop, Texas, is still ablaze with the wind-fueled wildfire, but the spread has slowed down due to calming winds in the rain-starved grasslands filled with debris of burnt out homes.
A firefighting crew of 250 has been dispersed over the entire area, but is not sufficient to take control of the fire that has destroyed more than 600 homes ...  8 days ago     Thousands Evacuated as Wildfire Destroys More Than 1,000 Homes in ... By: alic10      one of the most wildlife outbreaks in texas history. more than 1,000 homes strechesthe states firefighting ranks to the limit .Gov. rick perry with a major disaster at home just G.O.P presidental contests heats up.
More than 180 fires in the past week across the rain strafed lone and the nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in ...  8 days ago     1000 dwelling destroyed in fires  By: nabeela2001      
This is the worst fire disaster in Texas ever, says a spokesman for the Scots management in the state capital of Austin.
- Critical and unstable
In an interview with CBS today said Gov. Rick Perry that the situation in the state is critical and unstable. He set a little hope to weather forecast, which predicts slightly lower temperatures ...  8 days ago     Bastrop Texas wildfire update By: mahlina       
Bastrop, Texas wildfire has destroyed almost 600 homes, setting a record for the highest number of homes lost in a single fire in Texas history. Firefighters are trying to bring the wind-fueled wildfire under control that has consumed more than 25, 000 acres of land and forced approximately 5,000 people to evacuate.
According to recent ...  8 days ago     (Photos) Texas Wildfire Devastation - Thousands of homes destroyed  By: kalex      Texas Wildfire Devastation seems not stopping and already Thousands of homes been destroyed and people been evacuated from the places.According to the Texas Forest Service about  600 houses been burned and destroyed in Bastrop County which is near Austin.
Helicopters and small planes been employed apart from firefighters to provide ...  8 days ago     Hurricane Lee Leaves damages across South By: DetroitReports       
Hurricane Lee is reportedly responsible for spreading wild fires in Texas and creating tornadoes in Georgia. The Texas wildfires are spreading out of control and the alleged cause of a mother and her 18-month old child’s death, after flames burnt their small mobile home Sunday near Gladewate, east of Dallas.
At least 5,000 people were ...  8 days ago     Austin-area wildfire burns a record 476 residences in Texas By: aalees      
A huge wildfire east of the Texas
state capital of Austin
has destroyed 476 homes since Sunday and is still ablaze out of control.
 
"I'm still seeing no containment," said April Saginor,
public information officer for the Texas Forest Service, who confirmed that the
Bastrop County Complex Fire has scorched more than 25,000 acres and ...  8 days ago     Texas fires getting uncontrolable By: ahq26       
It is reported from Texas the Firefighters in
drought-stricken are struggling to contain this fire to 16-mile-wide (26-km) in
this regard it is stated that wildfire has destroyed almost Five Hundred homes.
Administrators said the fire had "grown significantly"
on Monday and was now burning on 25,000 acres of Texas.
Texas Governor Rick ...  9 days ago     Bastrop Texas By: imtiazfarooq      The Bastrop County Complex Fire has consumed more than 25,000 acres and destroyed an estimated 476 homes or structures since yesterday, Reuters reports.The Geomac imagery below shows how tenuous the situation is in and around Bastrop remains. The red circles in the image represents actively burning fire. Orange represents fire burned over the past ...  9 days ago     Natural fires tear sun-scorched Texas By: kensai      
 
Bastrop, Texas (AP) - Firefighters south of Austin, Texas, faced strong winds Monday as they struggled to gain ground against a forest fire in rapid evolution that has so far burned about 25,000 acres and destroyed nearly 500 homes.
 
Another fire in East Texas killed a mother and her 18-month-old child when the flames engulfed ...  9 days ago     Ravages of Nature - Texas wildfire after storm Lee By: prabirghose      
At least 300 houses in central Texas have been destroyed
by the wild fires – there is no sign of any arson and the source of the fire is
still unknown but it is presumed to have been fuelled by the tropical storm
Lee. Central Texas is facing a drought situation this year.
The fire burnt down nearly 200 acres in Pflugerville
and ...  9 days ago     Two dead, 1000 homes burned, updates (Video) By: StephEaly      Update:  
UTC (GMT) Tuesday, September 6, 2011 at 20:25:00
With well over 1,000 homes burned in the drought sun-scorched Texas, residents near the Austin area can only wait and hope their home wasn't one of them Tuesday.  
Now CBS is reporting that over 57 wildfires   9 days ago     Half of Bastrop State Park burned By: aniskhan26       
ome Texas Parks and Wildlife Department employees have been evacuated from the command post at Bastrop State Park.
Fires across Central Texas propelled partly by the high winds caused by Tropical Storm Lee burned thousands of acres. The entire state is under a red flag warning due to the fire danger.
Nearly half of the Bastrop State Park ...  9 days ago     Fierce Texas wildfire destroys almost 350 homes! By: darjee      An horrible wildfire southeast of Texas, destroyed alomost 350 homes, scorched severals of acres and stretched across a 18 mile area Monday morning.
Another blaze in eastern Texas killed a mother and her 18-month old child when flames burnt their mobile small home Sunday near Gladewater, the Gregg County Sheriff's Dept said.
Officials said low ...  9 days ago     Texas wildfire torches 300 homes By: Samantha86      
A major wildfire in Texas is causing property and
human life damage and there seems to be no end to the devastation at the moment
Texas waits for rain impatiently, as the
drought-stricken state is now faced with an even bigger danger of fire. A
fast-growing wildfire is spreading across Texas, fanned by winds from the
Tropical Storm Lee. ...  10 days ago     Wildfire erupts in Central and East Texas By: kalex      Wildfire erupts in central and East Texas because of heavy wind created by the Tropical Storm Lee.The National weather service gave red alert to these areas as Winds were coming  from the north to northeast part at about  30 miles per hour which may erupts more fire as the Humidity also increasing and is near about 20%.
People were ...  10 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas  
Austin America-Statesman/Texas Longhorns
 Texas A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee. At least 5,000...    “Monster” Wildfires Devour Texas: 500 Homes Destroyed in Bastrop [...  
International Business Times
 Text Size A cloud of smoke rises from a wildfire as it burns out of control near Bastrop Firefighters tried to contain a raging wildfire that engulfed thousands of acres of drought-stricken areas of Texas Monday. The wildfire devoured hundreds of...    Texas wildfires destroy at least 500 homes  
Los Angeles Times
 A massive central Texas wildfire roared through ranchland and suburbs Monday, destroying nearly 500 homes a state record for a single fire as Gov. Rick Perry appealed for federal assistance to fight at least 63 blazes throughout the drought-dried...    Massive fire still raging outside of Austin  
Fort Worth Star Telegram
 Firefighters from across the state swarmed into Central Texas on Labor Day to combat devastating wildfires that have left hundreds homeless and prompted Gov. Rick Perry to abruptly return from a scheduled East Coast political appearance. At least 476...    Two dead as wildfires scorch Texas, Perry back home  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 Sixty separate wildfires, whipped by winds as Tropical Storm Lee passed, burned across parched Texas on Monday, destroying hundreds of homes and leaving at least two people dead, authorities said. "I'm still seeing no containment," said April Saginor,...    2 dead in uncontrolled Texas wildfires  
United Press International
 Texas' most destructive wildfire ever -- one of more than 63 raging statewide -- consumed more than 25,000 acres and 500 homes near Austin, officials said. Another one of the wind-whipped infernos killed a mother and her 18-month-old child who were...   More Related Stories     Images    >         People watch as a wildfire ...    People watch as a wildfire ... Image Source: www.reuters.com People watch as a wildfire burns out of control near Bastrop        Smoke billows from behind a ...    Smoke billows from behind a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Smoke billows from behind a development of homes as a wildfire burns near ...        Extreme heat rises from the ...    Extreme heat rises from the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Extreme heat rises from the ground as flames burn around the entrance to a ...        Flames engulf a road near ...    Flames engulf a road near ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Flames engulf a road near Bastrop State Park as a wildfire burns out of ...        Flames engulf vegetation near ...    Flames engulf vegetation near ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Flames engulf vegetation near Bastrop State Park as a wildfire burns out of ...        A cloud of smoke rises from a ...    A cloud of smoke rises from a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A cloud of smoke rises from a wildfire as it burns out of control near ...      More Related Images    More From Austin          The Texas Health Care System        Men More Apt To Forgive Lesbian Affair        Progress and frustrations in historic Texas wildfire        Rick Perry Shorts Fire Fighters          Texas wildfires engulf more than 1000 homes        Rick Perry, Faces The Test Of Leadership In Real Time With Wildfires In Texas         Several killed in forest fires in Texas         Texas does not get a grip on bushfires           Aftermath of Tropical Storm Lee        Thousands Evacuated as Wildfire Destroys More Than 1,000 Homes in Texas.        Videos: Massive Wildfires continue to sweep acrossTexas        Rick Perry and The Tea Party A Threat To The Constitution          1000 dwelling destroyed in fires                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10256819          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 12 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 50       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 31       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10256819), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10256819 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10256819 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Texas wildfire destroys more than 500 homes” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10256819-texas-wildfire-destroys-more-than-500-homes.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         