Leaked tape reveals Koch brothers’ conservative donors | The Colorado Independent

The Colorado Independent 


 Sign up for our email newsletter

rss
facebook
twitter








 








HOME
ISSUES

Civil Rights
Economy/Finance
Education
Elections/Campaigns
Environment/Energy
Government Accountability/Reform
Health Care
Immigration
Justice/Civil Liberties
Labor
LGBT
Media
National Security
Politics


CIVIL RIGHTS
ENVIRONMENT/ENERGY
IMMIGRATION
POLITICS
SEND A NEWS TIP




 Top Stories  
Pro snow riders bumming out over GOP’s assault on the EPA and climate science



By Troy Hooper | 
		09.14.11

A trio of professional snow shredders are charging the biggest hill in
Washington, D.C., this week. Their message: Congress is getting too radical on Capitol Hill.


DeGette fights GOP ‘big government’ anti-abortion gambit



By John Tomasic | 
		09.13.11

In a new chapter of the often topsy-turvy story of the Tea Party era, Colorado Democratic US Rep Diana DeGette this week finds herself championing local government rights against Republican efforts to expand federal power. DeGette on Wednesday urged House and Senate appropriations committees staffers to reject legislative stipulations that aim to prohibit the District of Columbia government from using local tax dollars to pay for abortions as part of its employee insurance policies.  


Chaput navigating rocky first weeks in embattled Philly archdiocese



By John Tomasic | 
		09.13.11

Former Denver Archbishop Charles Chaput took the reins in sex-scandal-plagued Philadelphia last week. A sampling of YouTubes posted last week offers a snapshot of his trying first days there, a new Church leader in a place grown deeply distrustful of Church leaders. 


VIDEO: From the ashes of a murder rises a movement of hope



By Scot Kersgaard | 
		09.13.11

It wasn’t that long ago that Kansas legislator Virgil Peck said undocumented immigrants should be shot from planes. That may be an extreme view, at least so publicly expressed by someone so prominent, but almost every day someone on talk radio says something nearly as offensive.

 



 Video Highlights  




Chaput navigating rocky first weeks in embattled Philly archdiocese
VIDEO: From the ashes of a murder rises a movement of hope
VIDEO: Reagan and Bush were far to the left of current Republicans on immigration

Twitter List 

Blog Roll 

BigMedia

Boulder Weekly

ColoradoPols

Colorado Energy News

Colorado Springs Gazette

Colorado Springs Independent

Colorado Statesman

Complete Colorado

Coyote Gulch

Daily Camera

Denver Business Journal

Denver Post Spot blog     

Durango Herald

Elephant Journal

Ft Collins Coloradoan

Glenwood Springs Post Independent

Grand Junction Daily Sentinel

High Country News

Huffington Post Denver

People's Press Collective 

Real Aspen

Real Vail

Stateline Daily

Summit County Voice

Sunlight Foundation

Westword / Latest Word





 
 
Leaked tape reveals Koch brothers’ conservative donors
 Charles Schwab linked to Kochs

By Yana Kunichoff | 
		09.07.11 | 11:39 am


3 Comments 

Tweet
Share




A list of billionaire industrialists and conservative magnates that help fund Charles and David Koch’s far-reaching empire was released by Mother Jones magazine Tuesday. The list was culled from an audio recording of Charles Koch announcing high-dollar donors at a retreat in Vail, Colo., in late June.
The recording revealed names of more than 28 individuals that have donated $1 million-plus to Koch-supported groups pushing anti-union and anti-regulation legislation all over the country.
Among the highest donors at the most recent secret retreat, guarded by private security, were:
The Templetons: John “Jack” Templeton Jr. and his wife, Josephine, of Pennsylvania, gave $50,000 apiece to Wisconsin Justice Prosser’s recount effort this year. Jack has donated more than $1 million to Republicans, according to state and federal records. He heads the conservative John Templeton Foundation, which aims to merge evangelical Christianity with “science” and “health.” The foundation was started by Jack’s father, Sir John the mutual fund billionaire, and in 2009 reportedly had $1.7 billion in assets.
Joe Craft: Joseph Craft is president, CEO, and chairman of Alliance Resource Partners, a coal company based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, that gave $2.4 million to outside political expenditure groups in 2010. His family is reportedly worth $1.9 billion.
The Farmers: Dick Farmer is from Ohio. The founder and former CEO of the Cintas Corporation, his story is literally rags-to-riches: He turned his father’s Depression-era rag-cleaning business into a $3.5 billion enterprise. Farmer and his wife, Joyce, are longtime Republican boosters; during the 2002 election cycle the couple gave about $1 million to the party.
The Schwabs: Charles Schwab of San Francisco is founder and chairman of the Charles Schwab Corporation, the country’s largest independent brokerage firm. He is reportedly worth $4.7 billion. Since 1989, Schwab has donated more than $1.6 million to political causes, mostly Republican, according toOpenSecrets.org. Part of that went to his company’s lobbying arm, which has given away millions more.

Read the rest of the list here.




3 Comments 

Tweet
Share












Comments







Categories & Tags:
Economy/Finance| Politics|   Charles Koch | charles schwab | david koch | koch brothers | kochs in vail | mother jones | 
		



Twitter CoPolitics 

 





 Trending Now  
 New child labor laws address agriculture sector, likely hurt family farms  
 La Raza ends boycott of Arizona  

 AINN Affiliates  
The American Independent News Network:
American IndependentPowers defends UT’s mission: educating students ‘to do more than just pull levers’
Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa

Florida IndependentFlorida congressman attacks EPA for ‘going wild,’ using ‘junk science’
Tar balls, dead marine life raise more questions about oil in the gulf

Iowa Independent
Iowa visit won’t ease Perry’s immigration woes
King believes Obama’s ‘drunken Uncle Omar’ worthy of congressional hearings

Michigan MessengerDetroit City Council backs repeal of Emergency Manager law
Outsourcing government services costs more

Minnesota IndependentJeff Hayden wins DFLers nod in SD61
Strong showing by Sadik Warfa in SD61 DFL race

New Mexico IndependentDespite some bad news in national SAT results, analysts say worrying is premature
New Mexico: Legislators of Albuquerque’s West Side rally for more House seats

Texas IndependentPowers defends UT’s mission: educating students ‘to do more than just pull levers’
Rick Perry not likely to receive respite from immigration criticism in Iowa

 



Home
About us
Code of ethics
Contact us
Donate
Email Newsletter Signup
Our funders
Our team
Privacy and comment policies



 



© 2011 The American Independent News Network






























