  Keller Williams Northeast Begins Blog - Keller Williams

Keller WilliamsFeatured Listings


Home
Property Listings

Search All Properties
Open Houses


Our Agents
Community Info
Relocating?
About KW

KW Agent Difference

Charities


Careers
Contact Us


Concert Series
Resources

Buyers
Sellers
Banks and Mortgage Companies
Home Builders/Communities
Home Services
Insurance


Blog
 

You are here: Home / Keller Williams Events / Keller Williams Northeast Begins Blog 
Keller Williams Northeast Begins Blog
January 6, 2010  By Keller Williams Northeast Realty Leave a Comment  
Keller Williams Realty Northeast is kicking off the New Year with a new blog.  Each week in 2010, Keller Williams will keep you up-to-date on the latest happenings in the local real estate market and in the Northeast Houston community. If you have a topic that you would like us to blog about, contact us HERE.
Keller Williams Hosts Zumba Dance Concert at Kings Harbor
Do you have the New Year’s resolution to exercise more? If so, don’t miss the Keller Williams concert in January.  Local health club instructors will lead Zumba dancing and Latin music will be provided by the band Dozziz Tropical.  This free concert will be held on Fri., Jan. 15 from 7-10 p.m. at Kings Harbor in Kingwood. 
Rain date is Jan. 22. 
Zumba is a Latin-inspired aerobic dance fitness program designed to burn calories. “This type of workout is appealing to those who want to sweat and work hard, but it is still fun,” says Cindy Samudio who has been teaching Zumba classes with her husband Joe for the past five years. Participants say that they get so caught up in Zumba dancing that the time just flies by – it doesn’t feel like you are exercising.
Zumba has easy-to-follow moves from traditional Latin dances such as salsa, merengue, flamenco and tango.  It’s appropriate for all ages and abilities. “Nobody is excluded from this workout,” says Cindy. “New people can easily keep up with the class just as well as someone who has been going for years.”
Trish King, a Zumba instructor from QLS and Lone-Star College Kingwood, has several tips for first-time Zumba dancers planning to attend the concert:
 1. Dress comfortably.
2. Wear comfortable footwear such as sneakers. 
3. Bring a towel.
4. Bring a jacket to warm up with between sets.
5. Bring a water bottle.
Participating Zumba instructors are:  Trish King, QLS and Lone-Star College Kingwood; Cindy and Joe Samudio, Lake Houston Family YMCA; Rianne Garcia, Ekam Yoga Center; Chari Paulson, Kingwood Athletic Club; Melissa Reaux Dismukes, Halliburton Corporate Gym and Cornelia Berrocal, C-Results Fitness; Carmen Clemence, Lifetime Fitness; and Velia Abdala, Zumba with Velia.
The concert’s special guests will be the Hispanic Student Society International and the Hispanic Executive Society, which provides leadership and mentoring services to economically disadvantaged students at Humble, Atascocita and Summer Creek high schools. Donations will be accepted for the organization’s college scholarship fund.
We suggest that you bring a blanket, a lawn chair and a cooler with your favorite beverages. And don’t forget your dancing shoes. You won’t be able to sit still for long!
Kings Harbor is located at 1660 W. Lake Houston Pkwy. in Kingwood between Kingwood Dr. and FM 1960. For more information, visit www.clickKWne.com  
Photo by Pat and Ray’s Studio. Zumba ® and the Zumba Fitness logo are trademarks of Zumba Fitness, LLC, used under license.


Filed Under: Keller Williams Events, Northeast Houston Community Events, Northeast Houston Community News, Things to See & Do in Northeast Houston, Uncategorized Tagged With: blog, dance, dozziz tropical band, exercise, fitness, houston, keller williams, kings harbor, kingwood, new year, northeast houston, real estate market, realty, zumba, zumba dance, zumba instructors 





Speak Your Mind Cancel reply

Name *
Email *
Website
 




 

 

Latest Video








TitleMortgage Minute: Annual Percentage Rate
Runtime1:09
DescriptionFor more information, visit www.kw.com Your lender...






Live Chat With An Agent





Follow Us


Facebook
 
 
Return to top of pageCopyright © 2011 · Website Design by Design Bigger and Marketing Refresh









