Texas was warned about risk of building in backcountry



















The Adobe Flash Player is required to view this multimedia interactive.  Get it here.




SUBSCRIBE TODAY
PRINT OR E-EDITION










JOBS


HOMES


CARS


CLASSIFIEDS


HOOKEM.COM


ENTERTAINMENT


NEWS



Home

NEWS

Local News
VIRTUAL CAPITOL

Perry Files


PolitiFact Texas
STATE
Commuter Rail
Got a news tip?
Statesman Investigates
Special Reports
Education

AISD budget crunch


STATESMAN WATCH
Elections
Database Central
WILLIAMSON
NATION
World
Last 7 days
Archives
Obituaries
Corrections
Lottery
Statesman Crimetracker
This is Austin
Ethics Policy


BUSINESS

TECHNOLOGY
PERSONAL FINANCE
Top Workplaces
Area Employers
Employment
REAL ESTATE
Markets/AP Business News
Business Blog
Last 7 days
PR Newswire


Sports

Longhorns
Longhorns GameWeek

Rice
Brigham Young
UCLA
Iowa State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
Kansas
Texas Tech
Missouri
Kansas State
Texas A&M
Baylor


AGGIES
March Madness
College Football
HIGH SCHOOL

Team Pages
Volleyball
Sports Photo Contest


HS Football

Photo contest
Battle of the Bands


Capitol 10,000
Express
Stars
RECRUITING
OUTDOORS
GOLF
Formula 1
Area Pro Teams
AP SPORTS
NFL

Cowboys
Texans


NBA

Spurs
Mavericks
Rockets


MLB

Astros
Rangers


Last 7 days


Life

STYLE
TRAVEL
GARDENING
Season for Caring
HEALTH & MEDICAL
GREEN
RAISING AUSTIN

Raising Austin Forum
Mama Drama


BOOKS
Dog Show
Pets of the Week
Weddings
Lady Bird's Legacy
Glossy
FAITH
Life Guide
Camp Guide
Gowalla
Entertainment

Arts
Calendar
Food & Drink
TV
Music
Movies
Recreation
Spas & Salons


Last 7 days


Opinion

Editorials
Letters to the Editor
Commentary
Other Takes
Insight & Books

Books
Forums




WEATHER

Conditions
Weather Blog
Allergy Report
Storm season
Storm Tracker


Traffic

Traffic Cameras


MULTIMEDIA

Photo Galleries
Video
Interactives
Collective Vision


Blogs

News

Austin Legal
Charity Chat
City and County Beat
First Reading
Focal Point
Hill Country Rambler
Homeroom
Kelso's Cranky Corner
Postcards
Salsa Verde
Salud
Shortcuts
Somos Austin
The Blotter
The Lowdown on Higher Education
Weather Watch
Willco Wired


Business

Starting Up
Statesman Business Blog
Up the Ladder


Sports

Backspin
Bevo Beat
Bohl Games
Fantasy Island
Formula Austin
Golden's Nuggets
No Limits
The 12th Word at A&M
Tour de France
Varsity News


Life

Anders Meanders
Design Austin
Knittin' Kitten
Mama Drama
The Goods
Of Sacred and Secular
The Reader


Opinion

Grapeshot
The Reader


Multimedia

Collective Vision




Customer Service

Sitemap
Contact Us
Member Center
E-mail Newsletters
Sign up for the eEdition
Subscribe to the paper
Subscriber Services
Where to buy the Statesman
Buy Photos, Section Fronts
Reader Rewards
Readers Panel
Marketing
Careers at The Statesman
Internships
Community Development
Newspapers in Education
Inside Line


Advertise

Print
Online
Classifieds (Print & Online)
eTearsheets
Newspaper Ads































Site

Web

Archive

Web Search by YAHOO!







Home

 > 
Local News


Texas was warned about risk of building in backcountry







Enlarge Photo










Alberto Martínez  /AMERICAN-STATESMAN


Enlarge Photo


The drought that dried up vegetation set the stage for the Steiner Ranch fire, but it may have been power line sparks that ignited it.






Latest local news »





  LCRA directors may ask for OK to cut water for farmers

10:54 p.m. Wednesday



  With new water rules, Austin residents are cutting back, tattling on neighbors

10:48 p.m. Wednesday



  Central Texas Digest: Man found stabbed to death in Windsor Park; Central Health OKs money for mammography van

9:53 p.m. Wednesday



  Fight over dance routine leads to broken jaw, police say

9:52 p.m. Wednesday



  Powers wants medical school and other kinds of healing

9:52 p.m. Wednesday


Latest local news and last 7 days of headlines




More on Statesman.com »





  National League: Braves, Cardinals win




  American League: Weaver helps Angels keep pace




  Senate snarl could shut down FAA again




  LCRA directors may ask for OK to cut water for farmers




  Oil workers survived Gulf storm in tiny raft




  Nation Digest: California border crossing closed after scaffold falls, injures 11; Justice Ginsburg slides to safety off jetliner




  Concerns grow about religion's role in Libya's rule



More



Commenting unavailable on some articles



As part of a technology change, commenting will not be available on some 
articles for a number of months. Read 
more about the change here. 










By Eric Dexheimer  and  Tony Plohetski 


AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF







E-mail




Print





Larger Type
Small Type




In 1984, when a wildfire blackened 900 acres of Bastrop County's Tahitian 
Village, residents counted themselves lucky. The subdivision was early in 
its development, and so sparsely populated, that only six homes were lost.


Noting the buildup of flammable grasses and shrubs and the narrow roads and 
steep terrain making it difficult for firefighting equipment to maneuver, 
officials declared the event a wake-up call to wildfire awareness.


Nearly 25 years later, when they wrote a comprehensive Community Wildfire 
Protection Plan under the guidance of the Texas Forest Service, Bastrop 
officials identified 70 separate subdivisions at critical risk of wildfire 
where it would be dangerous for firefighters to work. Sweeping fire 
mitigation measures were proposed.


In 2009, a combination of gusty winds and concentrations of grass, pine 
needles and brush baked crackly dry by a historic "entrenched drought" 
kindled Bastrop County's Wilderness Ridge fire, which charred 1,500 acres 
and burned dozens of homes and businesses.


A state Forest Service review called the disaster, at the time Central Texas's 
worst fire, an uncommon "result of perfect storm conditions."


Last year, when the Sunset Advisory Commission reviewed the performance of the 
Texas Forest Service, Bastrop County's top emergency management official 
urged the agency to offer greater fire prevention help to communities where 
residential growth abuts the backcountry and fire danger was greatest.


The series of fires that broke out in the Bastrop area last weekend and killed 
two people, destroyed 1,400 homes and upended the lives of countless 
residents may have been unexpected in scope and in their ferocity. Yet to 
anyone who has been paying attention, the potential of a massive fire such 
as Austin-area residents have witnessed billowing to the east could hardly 
be called a surprise.


"Extreme wildfire behavior as we've experienced over the last decade is 
what we can continue to expect," the head of the Texas Forest Service 
wrote to the Legislature prior to the 2009 session. Citing the state's 
stubborn drought, he added: "Even with occasional rain events, we can 
expect...an increase in the number and severity of wildfires, perhaps unlike 
anything we've ever seen in Texas."


"We have known about, and anticipated, these incidences," added 
State Fire Marshal Paul Maldonado.


Even before flames began roaring through the Austin area a week ago, wildfires 
this year had consumed more than 3.6 million Texas acres.


No one disputes that nature set the stage for the current disaster. August was 
the hottest single month in Austin history, a sweltering exclamation point 
to the state's warmest summer on record.


The relentless drought wringing moisture from the state is also unprecedented: 
Texas is in the midst of the worst one-year dry period in its history. Once 
the Bastrop fires ignited, low humidity and gusty winds sent the flames into 
overdrive.


Yet if nature set the stage, experts also say that a number of man-made 
policies play a role in making the state more flammable, too. Planners in 
rural communities have limited authority to compel landowners to make their 
homes and properties less likely to ignite.


In some locations, critics say, the area's commitment to preserving endangered 
species habitat has resulted in a dangerous buildup of on-the-ground fuels. 
Controlled burns, used to reduce such tinder, have become less common. The 
increasing use of gentleman-rancher-friendly tax breaks have also allowed 
flammable grasses and shrubs to grow more than in the past.



Jon White, director of Travis County's Natural Resources and Environmental 
Quality Division, recalled fielding a phone call recently from a resident in 
the Jester Estates neighborhood, a higher-priced development marked by steep 
hills and wooded lots. It spreads across a ridge bordering the Bull Creek 
Preserve .


The man wanted to know when Travis County was going to cut back some of the 
trees on the preserve that were closest to his home to protect it from fire 
danger. White explained the land wasn't managed that way. While talking to 
him, "I'm thinking, 'His lot should never have been developed in the 
first place,'\u2009" White said.


The same is true, he added, for parts of Steiner Ranch, northwest of Austin, 
where a fire last week destroyed 23 homes, or some of the other Central 
Texas developments that have sprung up in recent years where once only empty 
land stretched into the Hill County to the west and the blackland prairie to 
the east.


Where the developments and the brush meet is the tectonic fault line of 
wildfire danger known to fire experts as the wildland-urban interface.


In an adaptation of the old philosophical question, if fire breaks out in an 
empty forest, it is noiseless. Adding people and homes, however, 
dramatically alters the equation, creating a cacophony.


Not only do humans ignite the vast majority of wildfires, their presence 
demands that firefighters and equipment rush to the scene to protect life 
and property.


"It's the developments that are the danger," White said.


When the Southern Group of State Foresters studied the region's fire danger 
five years ago, it counted 8 million wildland-urban interface acres in Texas 
and identified more than 6,000 communities at high or very high risk of 
wildfire damage.


That number almost certainly has grown since then. In recent years, 
subdivisions have sprung up in what once were fields or scrub forests as 
people moved to formerly rural Central Texas counties at a land-rush pace.


Between 2000 and 2010, Williamson County's population grew 69 percent; Hays 
County's ballooned 61 percent. Bastrop County swelled from about 58,000 
residents in 2000, to more than 74,000 last year.


A count by Metrostudy, a Texas-based housing information service, shows 2,227 
new subdivision homes built in Bastrop County over that time and more than 
15,000 in Hays County — numbers that don't even include new single homes.


Each time a subdivision replaces a field, the state's fire hazard climbs 
incrementally higher. "The state has experienced significant fire 
seasons in 8 of the past 14 years since 1996," the Texas Forest Service 
reported last year in its Statewide Forest Resource Strategy. "Additionally, 
the majority of wildfires have threatened homes. Once primarily a rural 
issue, wildfires are now clearly a statewide threat. Spatial analysis of the 
2005 and 2006 fire seasons shows that 85 percent of fires occurred within 
two miles of a community."



From a firefighter's or fire prevention officer's perspective, how these 
communities on the edge are built and maintained matters. Less flammable 
materials, wider roads and rules about keeping vegetation away from 
structures all reduce the likelihood that a fire will destroy a home or 
community.


Six years ago, lawmakers in California expanded from 30 to 100 feet the 
perimeter rural homeowners living in unincorporated areas — about a third of 
the state — legally had to keep clear to protect their homes from the cycle 
of devastating wildfires that has whipped through the state.


Last year, legislators added more laws requiring new homes built in rural 
areas to meet strict fire resistant standards "not just to resist 
direct flame impingement, but to repel burning embers, as well," said 
Daniel Berlant, a spokesman for CalFire, the state's firefighting agency.


The rules require vents to be closed, decks skirted and eaves covered — 
measures learned through painful and repeated lessons. "Much of what 
Texas is experiencing now, California has experienced much more often," 
Berlant said. "Our residents are very aware of the danger."


Compared to such fire-conscious steps, Texas "is behind," Maldonado 
said.


"We plan for hurricanes and floods. We respond to wildfires, but we're 
not used to planning for them," added Justice Jones, a fire prevention 
specialist with the Texas Forest Service.


Unlike Texas cities, which can compel developers to use fire-resistant 
materials and install fire safety equipment, regulators in unincorporated 
Texas counties, where much of the rapid growth is occurring, have much less 
authority to demand fire-proofing. (Later this month, Travis County 
officials will for the first time consider requiring new subdivisions in 
unincorporated areas to have sufficient "water flow" — lines, 
hydrants and storage — to fight a fire, said Tom Nuckols, director of the 
county attorney's Land Use Division.)


In its 2008 Community Wildfire Protection Plan, Bastrop officials specifically 
identified the use of flammable building and landscaping materials as 
potential threats. Another local risk: "Inadequate or non-existent 
wildfire defensible space around homes."


Yet, said Travis County Fire Marshal Hershel Lee, rural planners have no real 
legal authority to require landowners to take steps that would inhibit the 
spread of wildfires on their property.


"This is Texas, and local landowners are pretty much free to control 
their own land," Lee said. "I'm not saying that is a bad thing, 
but the drawback is that we are now in a very populated county. We are not 
what you would think of as a sparsely populated area where your actions 
don't have any impact on your neighbors."


Following his 2003 report for the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
declaring much of the Austin area ripe for a massive wildfire, Kevin Baum, 
then an Austin assistant fire chief, said he tried to get more regulatory 
control over how many homes were built in vulnerable areas, the type of 
construction materials used and the amount of defensible space required. 
Ultimately, he said, there was too much resistance, primarily from 
developers.


That's because developers have to play by the market's rules, said Harry 
Savio, executive vice president of the Home Builders Association of Greater 
Austin . "The land in this region is pretty pricey, so homebuilders try 
to make maximum use of it. Trees add value to the house, so you end up 
squeezing houses closer and closer to what I would call more native areas."


It's also unclear who would pay for any new fire-prevention rules, Savio added.


In recent years, legislators have slowly given county planners more authority 
to require developers to meet minimum fire mitigation standards, said Travis 
County Attorney David Escamilla. But, he added, it has mainly been limited 
to commercial and multifamily structures. It is also restricted to the 
state's largest counties and the counties next to them.


Bastrop County falls into this category.


But officials there were only just starting to review what fire prevention 
authority it had, planner Rachel Clampffer wrote in an email from Houston, 
where she went after being forced from her home because of the fires.


"Our County, along with others in the state are still defining what this 
means," Clampffer wrote. "As we move from disaster into recovery 
we will look at how the department can best protect our citizens while 
limiting government intrusion through the subdivision process. We expect to 
be rewriting our development regulations this year and it's definitely 
something that will be on our radar."


Bastrop Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said the county also had 
begun implementing some of the numerous recommendations from the 2008 
wildfire protection plan, including ensuring that the area's most vulnerable 
neighborhoods had defensible space. But, he added, the county still had 
plenty of work remaining.


Without laws requiring residents to uniformly fireproof their land and 
buildings, a community's safety must rest on the cooperation of dozens, or 
even hundreds of neighbors independently watching out for the public good. "Defensible 
space doesn't just protect your home; it protects the neighborhood," 
Berlant said.


Yet "If the homeowners aren't addressing the risk on their properties, it 
just isn't cutting it," the Forest Service's Jones added.



Conversely, some laws have unwittingly contributed to the area's fire hazard, 
fire experts say.


Over the years, legislators have added new property tax laws to the books that 
have proven popular with landowners snapping up rural land once managed for 
agriculture. For example, the wildlife management tax abatement grants 
property owners a generous property tax break if they agree to manage former 
grazing or crop land for wildlife.


Often, that means allowing grasses and ground cover to grow where cattle once 
chewed it close to the ground.


Though attractive to deer, birds and other wildlife, it also creates acres of 
new potential fire fuel — particularly when it is dried to a drought-baked 
crisp, said Lin Poor, founder of Texas Wildlife Management , a company that 
helps landowners manage their land to qualify for the tax break, among other 
services.


While many owners actively cut away brush and keep grasses short, others 
choose a more hands-off approach. Often, Poor said, such owners are those 
new to the country and unaccustomed to actively caring for their property: "The 
closer you get to urban areas, the more passive their management."


In the past, one common rural management tool has been prescribed burns, in 
which a defined piece of property is regularly burned to clear undergrowth 
and encourage ecological regeneration.


But, said Dave Redden, the burns have become more difficult. Redden is 
president of the newly formed South Central Texas Prescribed Burn 
Association, which encompasses the Austin area.


"Bastrop is one of our counties," he said. "Unfortunately, 
they're new to the group — they haven't done any burns in the area before." 
(Texas Department of Parks and Wildlife officials said they have conducted 
regular planned burns in Bastrop State Park.)


Redden said the public generally has limited appetite for accepting fire as 
land-management. When he moved from Houston to Washington County in 2001 and 
passed all his burn-boss courses, he said, he was excited to start helping 
private landowners. "And that's when all the hand-wringing began," 
he said.


Newcomers to the country, especially, don't like the smoke the burns produce, 
Redden said. County burn bans, which have become the new normal in the 
increasing periods of drought, typically prohibit prescribed burning.


Even the state has lowered its prescribed burn profile. This year's Sunset 
review of the Texas Forest Service noted that while at one time the agency 
helped private landowners burn their land — "a proven method of 
reducing wildfire risks" — it had gotten out of that business. "Because 
of liability concerns, TFS no longer conducts prescribed burns (on private 
property) \u2026 an important consideration in the State's overall effort to 
balance prevention and suppression of wildfires."


In his October 2010 letter to the Sunset commission, Fisher, Bastrop County's 
emergency management coordinator, asked that the agency be directed to 
implement a program to better help private landowners use prescribed burns 
to reduce wildland fire risk.



Some fire experts say the practice of setting aside large pockets of urban 
land for preservation, such as Travis County's Balcones Land Canyon 
Preserve, also may inadvertently contribute to wildfire risks.


During the late 1980s and early 1990s, as environmentalists began protesting 
rapid development of land west of downtown Austin, the city and county 
struck an agreement through which they obtained a federal permit to create 
the 30,000-acre preserve. Developers participated in the project by agreeing 
to contribute land to the preserve in exchange for being permitted to build 
in sensitive areas.


The problem, critics such as Baum say, is twofold: Developers prefer to build 
on top of ridges, with their flat land and premium-priced views, and donate 
the steep-sided canyons to the preserve. Because fire generally spreads 
faster on slopes, that creates "entire neighborhoods on top of a 
matchstick," he said.


Compounding the risk is that much of the preserve land is dedicated to two 
endangered species, golden cheeked warbler and the black capped vireo. 
Because of concern over their habitat, Baum, Maldonado and others said, the 
land is lightly managed, with little done to clear out accumulating 
underbrush that eventually will turn into fire fuel.


Travis County officials concede the Balcones preserve is not intensively 
managed to mitigate fire. "If we had lots of money, it would be great 
to do this to help reduce the fuel load in the future," said Rose 
Farmer, a county natural resources program manager.


"Prescribed burns would be a great thing," White added. "But 
it's too difficult; there's an enormous fear things would get out of 
control. Our elected officials have said that's not a risk we're willing to 
take."


Besides, they said, critics are exaggerating the fire danger due to minimal 
management. Cutting fire breaks, as is done in California, for example, 
could actually increase risk; the light grasses that replace cleared brush 
are where fire spreads the fastest.


And none of it would be a concern without the subdivisions nestled inside the 
trees and brush that give homeowners the sense of bucolic peace they seek. "Some 
of these high-risk communities are Utopia," the Forest Service's Jones 
said, "until a fire happens."


edexheimer@statesman.com; 445-1774


tplohetski@statesman.com; 445-3605




About this story


As 30 Statesman reporters and photographers provided up-to-the-minute coverage 
of the Central Texas wildfires, investigative team reporters Eric Dexheimer 
and Tony Plohetski spent the past week digging deeper to learn how 
government regulations, development and other man-made actions contributed 
to the unprecedented disaster. Dexheimer and Plohetski reviewed dozens of 
state and local documents, including wildfire prevention plans, and 
conducted about 30 interviews of fire experts, government officials, 
property owners and developers.



View as multiple pages


Share this article:



 




 




 




 




 




 





User comments are not being accepted on this article.











SHARE THIS PAGE WITH YOUR FRIENDS


Tweet


Share
















LATEST NEWS GALLERIES »












Photos of the Day, September 2011



Wildfires burn across Central Texas 



9/11 ceremonies and events in Austin, 9.11.11



A week of devastating wildfires, 09.11.11



Reader wildfire photos



Pursuing Sainthood



Central Unit prison in Sugarland closes



Thea Bryant's earthbag house



Woman survives night in collapsed chair



First day of school 2011, 08.22.11



Remembering Cactus Pryor, 09.02.11



Readers staying cool in heat wave, 2011



Photos of the Day, August 2011



Batfest, 08.27.11



Readers' Pflugerville fire photos, 08.25.11



Mandatory watering restrictions in Pflugervil



Hurricane Irene, 08.26.11



Dry season, 08.28.11



Brush fire near Oak Hill, 08.24.11



First day of school in Central Texas








MOST POPULAR




LCRA directors may ask for OK to cut water for farmers


ACC makes sense for Horns for many reasons


With new water rules, Austin residents cutting back, tattling on neighbors


West Lake Hills man disappears during trip to Port Aransas


Sources: Texas has three viable realignment options


Horns' run defense eager to make amends vs. UCLA










Latest AP Texas news »





  No more dancing around issues in feminine hygiene

23 mins ago



  3 suspicious deaths, burned San Antonio house

5:51 a.m.



  Tyler man killed by falling tree in his yard

5:32 a.m.


AP News: 
Texas
|
Nation
|
World
|
Sports
|
Biz









From our news partners




Teen in custody after rocket launcher found in car




Police: Slain Ga. mom missing both ears




Woman suing Toyota for 'stalker' ad campaign




Teens accused of egging cars in cause $10K in damage




Mothers charged; accused of telling daughters to fight




Fellow SF supervisor pokes fun at Wiener's public nudity legislation




Man gets 6 months for touching plane passenger




Rapper T.I. could learn furlough fate this week




Man falls off Mt. Rainier cliff as son watches




Fire chief: Ga. man blown up trying to burn ex-girlfriend's body



















News
Local
Virtual Capitol
Williamson
State
Crimetracker
StatesmanWatch
Obituaries
Database Central
Nation
World
Lottery
Business
Technology
Personal Finance
Area Employers
Employment
Real Estate
AP Business
Opinion
Insight
Ben Sargent


Sports
Longhorns
Longhorns Gameweek
Aggies
HS Football
High School
Recruiting
Outdoors
Golf
Area Pro Teams
NFL
NBA
MLB
AP Sports News
Life
Style
Travel
Gardening
Green
Health & Medical
Raising Austin
Books
Faith
Life Guide
Weddings
Season for Caring


Weather
Traffic
Traffic Cameras
Multimedia
Collective Vision
Interactives
Galleries
Blogs
Entertainment
A-List
Events
Music
Movies
Television
Arts
Recreation
Spas/Salons
Food/Drink
Mobile/RSS
Statesman
Austin360
iPhone application
RSS


Classifieds
Cars
Homes
Jobs
Find Austin Jobs
Merchandise
Customer Service
Member Center
E-mail Newsletters
Subscribe to the paper
Sign up for the eEdition
Subscriber Services
Where to buy the Statesman
Buy Photos
Readers Panel
Careers at the Statesman
Internships
Newspapers in Education
Inside Line
News tips
Reader rewards
Site map
Ethics Policy


Advertise
Print
Online
Classifieds (Print & Online)
eTearsheets
Newspaper Ads
Marketing
Community Development
DoGood
Glossy
Concert series
Marketing
Readers panel
Special Sections
Affliated sites
Ahora Si
Hookem.com
Bastrop Advertiser
Cedar Park Citizen
Lake Travis View
Leander Ledger
North Lake Travis Log
Pflugerville Pflag
Round Rock Leader
Smithville Times
Westlake Picayune






Copyright © Thu Sep 15 07:29:04 EDT 2011  
All rights reserved. 
By using Statesman.com, you accept the terms of our visitor agreement.
Please read it. 
Contact Statesman.com  |
Privacy Policy 
|
About our ads



















 

