Bastrop, Texas Wildfire 30% Contained - Urban Christian News


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































Bastrop, Texas Wildfire 30% Contained


September  7, 2011  3:05 PM





Danielle Prieto, 17, sits outside a neighbor's destroyed home after residents were allowed to return to the Steiner Ranch neighborhood of Austin, Texas. The home was one of many burned by wildfires which began to spread into the area Sunday. ( Shannon Kintner / The Daily Texan / September 6, 2011 )A favorable shift in weather conditions is giving Texas firefighters their first chance to make inroads against devastating wildfires that have been roaring across the state.








Email


Print





Twitter
Facebook
MySpace
Yahoo! Buzz
Blogger
FriendFeed
Gmail
Google Buzz


Delicous
StumbleUpon
Digg
Fark
Favorites
Mixx
Technorati
Wordpress



More Destinations...



 




One of the state's biggest fires, raging in Bastrop County, is about 30% contained."We have 30% containment, which makes us all feel really, really good," Jan Amen, spokeswoman for the Texas Forest Service in Bastrop County, told The Times. "It's the first day we've been able to say we have some of it buttoned up. We're going to keep working at it."Winds from the remnants Tropical Storm Lee have been driving the flames across the parched state, where record drought conditions have been coupled with high summer temperatures. But those winds relented some late Tuesday and overnight into Wednesday morning. "The winds have slowed down some," said Melanie Stradling, spokeswoman for the Texas Forest Service who provided a statewide view of the fires, told The Times. "That is helping."More than 1,000 homes have been lost in dozens of wildfires across the state that have burned over 100,000 acres. Thousands of residents have fled to safety or have been forced to evacuate when their homes were in the path of the fast-moving inferno.At least four deaths have been reported. And authorities warn that the death toll could rise as they begin to sift through the rubble and ashes for survivors or victims using specially trained dogs.Click here to continue reading.SOURCE: The Los Angeles TimesRene Lynch








Categories:

National, Weather



Tags:

Bastrop, Bastrop County, Bastrop wildfire, Jan Amen, Texas, Texas firefighters, Texas Forest Service, Texas wildfire, Tropical Storm Lee









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.













 




Guinness World Record: 12,290 Pound Chocolate Bar


Arab Spring Has Exposed Religious Intolerance in Mideast, Clinton Says 


Mars Hill Pastor Wants a Working Relationship with Portland Community 


Virginia School Board Sued For Posting Ten Commandments


Europe Becoming More Intolerant Towards Christians, OSCE Conference Warns 


N. Carolina Senate OK's Same-Sex Marriage Ban, Voters to Decide in 2012 


More Americans Customize Religion


Republicans Win Upset Victory in New York Democratic Stronghold, Take Weiner's Seat




 


















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










