
	Worst-Ever Fire in Texas: Bastrop Wildfire Burns 500 Homes























                         
                    







What's New



Hot Topics




entertainment


celebrity


Rick Perry


Rick Perry 2012


Election 2012


President Obama


special election


Lady Gaga


Tareq and Michaele...


Tareq Salahi




Log In


















	                         
	                        






                            Snappy newsletters. Simple Facebook sharing. Spirited comments. Sweet features are waiting… 
                            

                                    GET THEM NOW!
                                






























TOP STORIES
POLITICS
GREAT FINDS
OPINION
TABLOIDS
US
WORLD
MONEY
SCIENCE
TECH
HEALTH
ENTERTAINMENT
LIVING
MORE

CELEBRITY
CRIME
GREEN
MEDIA
POLITICS
SPORTS


















More US Stories»





































































































































































































Texas Wildfire Is 'Worst Ever'
Nearly 500 homes destroyed; 3.5M acres charred this year






                                    
                                        By Matt Cantor,
                                         Newser Staff
                                


                            Posted Sep 6, 2011 7:48 AM CDT
                            
                            
                        







                                            STORY
                                        




                                            COMMENTS
                                            (11)
                                        










































Bookmark & Share






Digg
Fark
LinkedIn
StumbleUpon


Delicious
Google Buzz
Reddit
Tumblr

















                                                                    (Newser)
                                                                 –
                                                                Wildfires continued to ravage Central Texas yesterday as firefighters battled the most devastating single fire in Texas history, the Los Angeles Times reports. As of yesterday, 476 homes had been destroyed in Bastrop County, east of Austin; firefighters battled the flames as they tore through thousands of acres. With 40 square miles already charred, the fire remained a threat, though no one has been seriously injured, the American-Statesman notes. “This one is as mean-looking as I've ever seen,” said Gov. Rick Perry.
                                                            

                                                                But “we will pick up the pieces. We will rebuild,” he said, adding that he’d call on the federal government for a major disaster declaration. Reduced winds are expected today, but forecasters still see “extreme” growth potential for the Bastrop fire; some 5,000 people have been evacuated. The blaze continues a disastrous year for Texas wildfires, with 3.5 million acres burned and six of the 10 biggest wildfires in Texas history occurring this year. “There are so many big fires—23 and counting—there are simply not enough firefighters and aircraft to go around,” says an NPR reporter. They "move so fast, they kill."






















[Images (4)]
[Quotes (1)]
















                                                    Gov. Rick Perry holds a news conference to discuss wild fires in central Texas, Monday, Sept. 5, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas.
                                                      (AP Photo/Eric Gay)
                                                











                                                    A large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011 burns piles of lumber and ranch posts.
                                                      (AP Photo/Erich Schlegel)
                                                











                                                    Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.
                                                      (AP Photo/Erich Schlegel)
                                                











                                                    Firefighters from around the state battle a large wildfire on Highway 71 near Smithville, Texas, Monday, Sep. 5, 2011.
                                                      (AP Photo/Erich Schlegel)
                                                












ADVERTISEMENT(Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.)




View larger images >>


 

« Prev« Prev | Next »Next »

Slideshow















                                                        It almost feels like the whole state is burning.
                                                        
                                                             - Gary Bonette, who lost his home in fire
                                                        













 

« Prev« Prev | Next »Next »

Slideshow















CLICK BELOW TO VOTE


6%



3%





65%



3%





17%



6%







    To report an error on this story, notify our editors.







OTHER STORIES ON OUR RADAR

 




Getty Images




                        S&M Model Has Two Dead Boyfriends (Daily Intel)
                    



                        Did Madonna Tell Volunteers ... Not to Look at Her? (HuffPo)
                    



                        Female Basketball Star Killed in Case of Mistaken Identity (NewsOne)
                    



                        Megan Fox: I Don't Have Enough Money to Have Kids (HuffPo)
                    



                        Obese Nanny Crushes Infant (The Stir)
                    

 

Partner Links





Continue browsing the Home grid.












|













THE GRID


POPULAR


CHANNELS


CHANNELS


Set your default tab »





View Larger Grid












                    Grid Position Saved
                

Reset Grid


                These
                writers are approved by Newser.  
            

What's the Front Page?


All
Today
Yesterday
Pick a Date


                    Grid Position Saved
                

Reset Grid




By Views
By Comments
By Likes














































































































































 


MORE STORIES


 



Back to top of Grid









COMMENTS


Read the comment policy



            Showing 
            3 
            of 
            11 comments
        






                    Cprizzle
                

                    Sep 6, 2011 4:53 PM CDT
                



                Sad indeed. There has been a bit of smoke as far East as College Station. I'm no fan of fellow Aggie Rick Perry, but at least he left the campaign trail to be in Texas. 

http://theprichuationroom.blogspot.com/2011/09/texas-on-fire.html
            






                    Courtney
                

                    Sep 6, 2011 8:32 AM CDT
                



                This is very sad and hard to read, however, isn't it Rick Perry who says he'll get government as far out of our lives as possible (or something to that effect).  And now he is saying that he will call on the federal govenment for disaster assistance.  Hmmmmmm (Which is it Rick?)  Government IN or OUT? You can't have it both ways or the way that benefits YOUR circumstances only.
            






                    JackNelsonSteward
                

                    Sep 6, 2011 8:29 AM CDT
                



                
y'all get on the black side of that thing, and stay there ... don't get on the brown side ... 
            




View all 11 comments
Leave a comment













What's Popular Now on Facebook






                    Ron Paul's Ill Ex-Campaign Manager Died Uninsured
                









                    86% of Americans Are OK With Interracial Marriage
                

























 

Austin American-Statesman
(Source Grid »)
Los Angeles Times
(Source Grid »)
NPR
(Source Grid »)
Reuters
(Source Grid »)









US







 
Texas
•
drought
•
severe weather
•
Rick Perry
•
wildfires
•
natural disaster
•
Texas wildfires








MOST POPULAR STORIES



[
By Views
]


[
By Comments
]






1.

Gaga Flashes Photogs ... Er, What Was That?



2.

Detroit Woman, 101, Evicted From Home of 58 Years



3.

McGinniss Book: Palin Had One-Night Stand, Used Coke



4.

Pennsylvania Rule Change by GOP May Doom Obama



5.

Ron Paul's Ill Ex-Campaign Manager Died Uninsured







1.

McGinniss Book: Palin Had One-Night Stand, Used Coke

100


2.

Ron Paul's Ill Ex-Campaign Manager Died Uninsured

99


3.

Nearly 1 in 6 in US Lives in Poverty

99


4.

Pennsylvania Rule Change by GOP May Doom Obama

93


5.

Virginia School Board Sued Over Ten Commandments

87

























Newser by Users Stories


See more stories written by our users »




 
















More Newser Stories
 



Rick Perry Asked to Halt Tomorrow's Execution


Jury told black men pose greater danger
                    (NEWSER) - Lawyers for Duane Edward Buck are urging Texas Gov. Rick Perry to step in and stay their client's execution, scheduled for tomorrow, citing racially biased testimony presented at his sentencing hearing. Texas law requires juries to decide if a defendant poses a “future danger” when deciding whether to give the death penalty, the LA Times explains. Prosecutors brought up “the race factor,” asking defense psychologist Walter Quijano if being black made Buck more likely to be dangerous. Quijano said it did, and prosecutors cited that in their closing arguments. More»





Bachmann Tones Down Words on HPV Dangers


Rush Limbaugh says she's 'jumping the shark' with retardation anecdote
                    (NEWSER) - Michele Bachmann looks to be pulling back from controversial comments she made about the HPV vaccine after drawing flak from the medical community and others—including Rush Limbaugh, notes Minnesota Public Radio . Bachmann scored points in last night's debate by criticizing Rick Perry's decision to try to mandate the vaccine in girls, calling it an example of misguided big government. In two subsequent TV interviews, she tried to press her advantage, relaying a story about how a mother "told me that her little daughter took that vaccine, that injection, and she suffered from mental retardation thereafter." The vaccine "can have very dangerous side effects," she said. More»





Perry Living High on the (Donors') Hog


Lives the high life—but you wouldn't know it listening to him
                    (NEWSER) - Rick Perry may play up his modest background, but these days he’s living in the lap of luxury—with a little help from his friends. Donors pay for the mansion he rents from the state for $10,000 a month—and they’ve covered worldwide travel, resort visits, top-tier hotel stays, and big entertainment events he attends. On top of that, Perry has received a wealth of gifts from his buddies, Politico reports. More»





Texas Wildfire Toll: 1,386 Homes, 2 Lives


Bastrop fire just 30% contained
                    (NEWSER) - Texas’ Bastrop Wildfire has already been named the state’s worst ever , and it continues to rage: Now 1,386 homes have been destroyed, and the fire is just 30% contained. Two people have died, one of them a city of Austin employee found inside his home. The fire has burned about 38,000 acres and has affected a 25 mile by 20 mile area, MyFox Austin reports. More»





Texas Fires' Toll: 1,000 Homes and Counting


Firefighters still trying to contain blazes fed by Tropical Storm Lee
                    (AP) - More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said today. Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to return to Texas, toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin, where a fast-moving blaze destroyed nearly 600 homes yesterday. More»








































NEWS FROM OUR PARTNERS






Bachmann's Ex-Campaign Manager Calls 'Retardation' Comment...


Judge To GOP Congressman: Prove That You Don't Owe Child...


WATCH: Elizabeth Warren Talks Senate Bid With Rachel Maddow



More from Huffington Post »








Palmer takes charge at ADC


Ad Buyers on AOL-Microsoft-Yahoo Deal: What’s In It for Us?


Erwin Penland Enters New York Market



More from Adweek »








Anna Faris On Her Boob Job & Bulls*it Women Actress Friends


PHOTOS: Jennifer Shows Baby Bump, Olivia Wilde Calls Out...


Scarlett Johansson Nude Photos Leaked?



More from HuffPost Entertainment »








Why anti-Israel anger is mounting in Egypt: 4 theories


Why men with deep voices get the girls


Has Rick Perry turned Mitt Romney into a better candidate?



More from The Week »








Congressional Democrats on N.Y.-9 Loss: 'Only in New York!'


Willow the Cat Pulled a 'Reverse Homeward Bound'


FBI Training Material Says 'Mainstream' Muslims Are Mostly...



More from Daily Intel »









Rick Perry plays up a bogus "Texanism"


My mother, the Playboy Bunny


I cheated just once. Should I tell?



More from Salon »








Anderson Cooper Goes Shirtless for Snooki Tanning Session...


'Breaking Dawn' Trailer Reactions: Readers Gush Over...


Halle Berry Packs on PDA During Bikini Vacay in Spain...



More from Celebuzz »








'Up All Night': What It Got Right and What It Got Wrong


'Top Chef Just Desserts' Recap: Willy Wonka Would Be Proud


Naughty Eel Swims Up Man's Penis



More from The Stir »








Kwame Kilpatrick: There Is A Movement To “Lock Me Up”


Herman Cain 2012 Campaign Concealed Gay Adviser’s Role:...


Tiger Woods Struggling To Qualify For His Own Golf...



More from NewsOne »





Other Sites We Like:  
24/7 Wall St.
              |  
            Betty Confidential
              |  
            BuzzFeed
              |  
            Cracked
              |  
            Fark
              |  
            Timelines            
              |  
            The Stir
              |  
            The Frisky










About Us
What is Newser?
What Newser Does
Who's Behind Newser?
6 Myths About Newser
What People Are Saying
Contact Us
Advertise on Newser


Site
Help
How Do I Use Newser?
Why Should I Register?
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Suggest a Story


Newser By Users
Writer Central
How to Write a Summary
How to Get Your Summary Promoted
NBU Forum


Community
Discuss on Facebook
Social Networks
Site Maps
Story Index
User Story Index
Top Sources


Tools
RSS
Mobile
Desktop Wallpapers
More News
AP News Wire



What is Newser?

Face it: there's too much news. At Newser, we choose the most thought-provoking and entertaining stories from hundreds of US and international sources and reduce them to a headline, picture, and two paragraphs. And we do it 24/7—you can come back morning, noon, night (and in between) for something new that matters. Read less, know more.


Learn more »



                                ©
                                2011
                                Newser, LLC. All rights reserved.
                            

                                Partnering with:
                                










































