Some Texas residents allowed back after wildfire - Worldnews.com


Explore WN

Photos
Travel
Movies
Photographers
Health
Science
Technology
Cities
Live TV



Login
Edit































About WN
Contact
Advertising
Feedback
Privacy Policy
© 2011 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved








Some Texas residents allowed back after wildfire
















News
Videos
Video Details












Philadelphia Daily News
2011-09-10: 
                     The Associated Press BASTROP, Texas - Residents of one neighborhood evacuated because of a massive Texas wildfire are being allowed back in to...
                     more »






Read full article
Post a Comment
Sms this Page



Email this Page



RSS





Previous
Next



Read full article
Back to 'Some Texas residents allowed back after wildfire'





























































Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay



Sign up
I have an account, login



clear
restore


list
images




                             








                        

                           

...

                   


                        













Harry Kalas Tribute Video - April 17, 2009 - Philadelphia Phillies vs. San Diego Padres

Order: Reorder
Duration: 5:43
Published: 2009-04-18
Author: gapeach896


This is the HK tribute video played before the Phillies game on April 17, 2009.

http://wn.com/Harry_Kalas_Tribute_Video__April_17,_2009__Philadelphia_Phillies_vs_San_Diego_Padres










photo: photo: AP / Erich Schlegel





photo: photo: Creative Commons / Christophe Maximin





photo: photo: AP / Erich Schlegel





photo: photo: AP / FESA, Evan Collis





photo: photo: AP / Eric Gay





photo: photo: AP / FESA, Evan Collis





photo: photo: Creative Commons / Unherdable





photo: photo: WN / Minakumari





photo: photo: AP / Steve Helber





photo: photo: AP / Khalil Hamra
















«
»

more photos...






Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees
The Wichita Eagle


Texas wildfires destroy more than 1,000 homes
Philadelphia Daily News


Teens sought for arson over Texas wildfire
MSNBC


Cops: Teen arsonists sought over Texas wildfire
MSNBC


Wildfires sweep across Texas, four dead
Yahoo Daily News


Wildfire near Austin, Texas, destroys 300 homes
Breitbart


Texas wildfire consumes hundreds more homes
MSNBC


Texas ablaze: Scores of wildfires destroy 1,000 homes, burn over 100,000 acres
The Examiner









Video Results







                Harry Kalas Tribute Video - April 17, 2009 - Philadelphia Phillies vs. San Diego Padres
            
Harry Kalas Tribute Video - April 17, 2009 - Philadelphia Phillies vs. San Diego Padres
5:43


                    This is the HK tribute video played before the Phillies game on April 17, 2009....
                






Advertisement











Most Popular




Leila Lopes of Angola is crowned Miss Universe
The Wichita Eagle





11 dead, 212 hurt after trains, bus collide
Independent online (SA)





US poverty numbers hit record high
Al Jazeera





Israel under pressure
Al Jazeera





Virtual statehood or the Right of Return
Al Jazeera





Over 100 dead in Kenyan pipeline fire
DNA India





Related News




Progress and frustrations in historic Texas wildfire
2011-09-09


Yahoo Daily News
AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - A deadly and enormously destructive wildfire was still burning on Friday southeast of Austin, but county officials said the nearly 850 firefighters battling the blaze continue to make progress in containing the historic fire. "Things are looking pretty good out there," said Bastrop County Emergency Coordinator Mike Fisher. Some 1,386 homes have been...
            

read more







Wildfires sweep across Texas, charring 1,000 homes
2011-09-06


Chicago Tribune
AUSTIN (Reuters) - Wildfires sweeping across drought-stricken Texas have destroyed more than 1,000 homes in the last several days as they move into more populated areas, Governor Rick Perry said on Tuesday. Perry surveyed damage in west Austin on Tuesday, where dozens of homes have been destroyed and hundreds evacuated. Speaking after his visit, The Texas governor, who left the...
            

read more







Flight from the inferno: Thousands flee 'monster' Texas wildfires which kill two and destroy 5,000 homes
2011-09-06


The Daily Mail
Hundreds of families have been left homeless after a wind-fueled wildfire swept through Central Texas. Almost 500 homes were destroyed, and 5,000 residents evacuated, as the flames spread yesterday to cover more than 25,000 acres. Firefighters were last night hoping for a drop in the winds, the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee, so they could contain the blaze. Raging: A wildfire...
            

read more







Wildfires sweep Texas, 1,000 homes destroyed
2011-09-07


Tulsa World
AUSTIN, Texas - More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze close to Austin that is still raging out of control, officials said Tuesday. Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina on Monday to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, toured a...
            

read more






















                Harry Kalas Tribute Video - April 17, 2009 - Philadelphia Phillies vs. San Diego Padres
            
Harry Kalas Tribute Video - April 17, 2009 - Philadelphia Phillies vs. San Diego Padres
5:43


                    This is the HK tribute video played before the Phillies game on April 17, 2009....
                

























RSS















	The World News (WN) Network, has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to user privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for wn.com, as well as e-mail newsletters.
1. Personal Information Collection and Use
We do not collect personally identifiable information about you, except when you provide it to us. For example, if you submit an inquiry to us or sign up for our newsletter, you may be asked to provide certain information such as your contact details (name, e-mail address, mailing address, etc.).
When you submit your personally identifiable information through wn.com, you are giving your consent to the collection, use and disclosure of your personal information as set forth in this Privacy Policy. If you would prefer that we not collect any personally identifiable information from you, please do not provide us with any such information. We will not sell or rent your personally identifiable information to third parties without your consent, except as otherwise disclosed in this Privacy Policy.

Except as otherwise disclosed in this Privacy Policy, we will use the information you provide us only for the purpose of responding to your inquiry or in connection with the service for which you provided such information. We may forward your contact information and inquiry to our affiliates and other divisions of our company that we feel can best address your inquiry or provide you with the requested service. We may also use the information you provide in aggregate form for internal business purposes, such as generating statistics and developing marketing plans. We may share or transfer such non-personally identifiable information with or to our affiliates, licensees, agents and partners.
We may retain other companies and individuals to perform functions on our behalf. Such third parties may be provided with access to personally identifiable information needed to perform their functions, but may not use such information for any other purpose.
In addition, we may disclose any information, including personally identifiable information, we deem necessary, in our sole discretion, to comply with any applicable law, regulation, legal proceeding or governmental request.
2. E-mail addresses
We do not want you to receive unwanted e-mail from us. We try to make it easy to opt-out of any service you have asked to receive. If you sign-up to our e-mail newsletters we do not sell, exchange or give your e-mail address to a third party.
E-mail addresses are collected via the wn.com web site. Users have to physically opt-in to receive the wn.com newsletter and a verification e-mail is sent. wn.com is clearly and conspicuously named at the point of collection.

If you no longer wish to receive our newsletter and promotional communications, you may opt-out of receiving them by following the instructions included in each newsletter or communication or by e-mailing us at michaelw(at)wn.com
The security of your personal information is important to us. We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information submitted to us, both during registration and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100 percent secure, however. Therefore, though we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

If we decide to change our e-mail practices, we will post those changes to this privacy statement, the homepage, and other places we think appropriate so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we disclose it.
If we make material changes to our e-mail practices, we will notify you here, by e-mail, and by means of a notice on our home page.
3. Third Party Advertisers
The advertising banners and other forms of advertising appearing on this Web site are sometimes delivered to you, on our behalf, by a third party. In the course of serving advertisements to this site, the third party may place or recognize a unique cookie on your browser. For more information on cookies, you can visit www.cookiecentral.com.
4. Business Transfers
As we continue to develop our business, we might sell certain aspects of our entities or assets. In such transactions, user information, including personally identifiable information, generally is one of the transferred business assets, and by submitting your personal information on Wn.com you agree that your data may be transferred to such parties in these circumstances.







London UK +44-207-193-3591 / +44-207-096-1638
Helsinki, Finland  +358-9-2316-4630
New York +1-212-845-9579 / 646-502-8772
San Francisco +1-415-413-0888 / 415-655-1833
Los Angeles  +1-213-985-2670
Montpellier, France  +33-4-6701-4760
Hong Kong, China +852-8191-2790
Sydney, Australia +61-2-8005-8160
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil +55-21-3717-1890














