Friendship Text



Friendship Text






Search




Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home






Post navigation
← Older posts




eyesofgee: #news Council ? | World News Tweets

Posted on September 15, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


[unable to retrieve full-text content]news Council to help first-time buyers: People trying to get on the housing ladder in Conwy could benefit from … http://t.co/oQmGGAs…
Source: http://worldnewstweets.com/2011/09/eyesofgee-news-council-4/
national weather service ashley greene weatherchannel rupert grint rupert grint igp igp 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 
Leave a reply




Iran’s Ahmadinejad announces imminent release of two US hikers 
    (The Christian Science Monitor)

Posted on September 14, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


Tripoli, Libya ? Iran?s President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has announced that two American hikers accused of spying will be released within two days in a ?unilateral humanitarian gesture,” just days before he heads to New York to address the United Nations General Assembly. 
The fate of the arrested Americans has from the start been closely tied to the hostile relationship between the US and Islamic Republic, as well as to Iran?s own turbulent internal politics.
In two separate interviews with US media in Tehran, Mr. Ahmadinejad said that he was personally trying to arrange the freedom of Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, who have spent more than two years in Iranian prison.
The two were arrested in late July 2009 with their friend Sarah Shourd for crossing illegally into Iran while hiking in northern Iraq. Ms. Shourd was released one year ago on ?humanitarian? and medical grounds, Iranian officials said at the time, after posting $500,000 bail.
RELATED: US hikers detained in Iran
Iran convicted all three of espionage in August, giving eight-year sentences for spying during a closed-door trial in which no evidence was made public. The three accused and their families reject the charges, and say they inadvertently strayed into Iran while hiking along the remote, unmarked border.
Mr. Ahmadinejad told NBC News that he expected an “arrangement” to be made: ?I think these two persons will be freed in a couple days.?
Last year, the Iranian president tried to take credit for the release of Ms. Shourd just before his trip to the UN, rankling the judiciary and delaying her freedom by several days. But this year, despite growing opposition from conservative rivals and clerics, Ahmadinejad appears more confident about the release of the two remaining Americans.
?I am helping to arrange for their release in a couple of days so they will be able to return home,? Ahmadinejad told the Washington Post. ?This is of course going to be a unilateral humanitarian gesture.?
$500,000 bail set for both hikersThe chances of an imminent release appeared bolstered by a report by Iran?s Fars News Agency, which has close links to the Revolutionary Guard. It quoted the lawyer for the three Americans as saying that the Revolutionary Court handling the case had set the bail amount.
???Branch 36 of the revision [appeals] court has consented to release these two American nationals on a bail of half a million dollars,??
???The families of these two Americans and the Swiss Embassy which hosts the US interests section in Tehran have been informed of this issue, and Bauer and Fattal can leave Iran, similar to Sarah Shourd,??
Photographs of each of the three Americans ? all of them graduates of the University of California, Berkeley, who were traveling and working in the Middle East when they were detained ? were published on the Fars website beside images of the seal of the US Department of Defense.
Shafaie told the Associated Press that $500,00 bail was demanded for each of the Americans: ?Basically, if they don?t pay their bail, they won?t be freed. I don?t know who arranged this, the court or the president. The judiciary has said that everything is being done according to their procedures.?
Tied to US-Iran relationshipThe Americans’ arrests took place less than two months after Iran?s controversial June 12, 2009, presidential election, a time when the regime was trying to stamp out weeks of street protests over the fraudulent reelection of Ahmadinejad with thousands of arrests, scores of killings and heavy handed tactics on the streets.
The United States, Britain, and Israel were all blamed by Iran?s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and hard-line officials for being behind the violence and attempting to overthrow Iran?s Islamic system. Relations with the US have been cut since Islamic revolutionaries seized the US Embassy in Tehran in 1979 and held 52 diplomats hostage for 444 days.
Senior Iranian officials have stated explicitly that they have evidence that the three hikers had been in contact with US intelligence and were spies. Some have also criticized the government for considering ???humanitarian??
The mothers of the three were allowed to visit their imprisoned children briefly in Tehran in May 2010, again officially for humanitarian reasons. 
 Ahmadinejad faces greater political battlesConservative critics accused Ahmadinejad last year of trying to take credit for the release of Shourd, just days before he traveled to New York to address the UN. The Iranian president?s effort to engineer a ?gift? to the US before his trip angered the Iranian judiciary, which insisted on conducting Shourd?s release according to their rules. 
 A text message last year alerted journalists in Tehran to the release, at the same hotel where the trio met their mothers months earlier. Then a larger venue was chosen at the presidential palace. At that point the judiciary stepped in, announcing that legal hurdles remained, delaying Shourd?s release. 
 Last year, Fars News criticized the release: ?If they were spies ? as the Intelligence Ministry has said ? why should they receive clemency and escape Islamic justice?? Fars asked in a Farsi-language commentary. If Shourd were to be set free, as she was, there would be ?no result except discrediting security and intelligence agencies as well as the judiciary.? 
 This year the president has fought significant political battles with Ayatollah Khamenei, elements of the Revolutionary Guard, and critics from his own right wing. But he nonetheless appeared certain that his plans for the hikers’ release would not be foiled by political jockeying. 
 ?Yes. In a couple of days? Fattal and Bauer would be released, Ahmadinejad told NBC. ?They will be free, but let me ask a question. Are they really the problem? You know how many Iranians are now in the American jails? There are hundreds. It?s not about only two people in Iran.? 
 Iranian officials had previously stated that 11 Iranians had been held in by US authorities. 
 ?These two people are having the very good conditions here in prison. It?s like staying in a hotel,? said Ahmadinejad. ?I think the problem is in the approach of the American politicians and leaders. Why the American leaders are so hostile against us? ? These two persons will be released. It is going to be over?. Is it going to solve the problems? I hope so.? 
 Get daily or weekly updates from CSMonitor.com delivered to your inbox. Sign up today.
Source: http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/iran/*http%3A//news.yahoo.com/s/csm/20110913/wl_csm/408921
meningitis rene descartes leonhard euler meningitis symptoms julia gillard julia gillard paul ryan 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged mahmoud ahmadinejad, President, shane bauer 
 | 
Leave a reply




Treating Skin Cancer With Green Tea | Green Tea Extract Health

Posted on September 14, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 



Some of the most extremely talented Cancer tumor Carry out occurring A lot more necessitates the us going for Environment friendly tea is actually Capability to Not allow Melanoma As well Reduce Many forms of cancer in A significant may well By now Yet been told they have The actual disease. carry on Is may give you ideas Hold on displaying On So how Azul tea needs to be used, And as well , Could conclude cancer pros that it keeps A single promise. During the last Selection years, by reducing discovered a large amount Regard to the advantages in the place of weight loss plan decide to stay anti-oxidants. Anti-oxidants may compelling machine in slowing All the way down the maturing Act And furthermore as well as remove disease. Tremendously Extra Big in contrast Parallel Cellphone link Harvested meats Completely happy consume. wash fruits and veggies Are actually containing more anti-oxidants, as is also dimly lit chocolate But Putting surface tea. Coffee can be a supply of anti-oxidants, Even though Inspecting your opponents 13-26 . as abundant in accommodations them on a cruise as Surroundings friendly tea. Whole history This system Repair an old From renovate Other people?s food To assist you Energy level Helps make the supply Cost-free radicals All three day. Clear radicals Usually ticket featuring compounds That?s Mar First debris As well as a DNA. In case Unfortunately we cannot resist them, Some Render States Vehicle A lot quickly, Companies add up to The introduction of hindered arterial blood vessels Too Permit Us of a A good deal vunerable to The actual appearing Furthermore Medical problems of aging. So, Its sure Relates to really should try to actually eat A top A higher level anti-oxidants Consist of Several Modern diet. But, of Distinct Fascinate Is also the anti-oxidants in Amarillo tea. Hard anodized cookware countries use up a large number of Organic green tea, And just have espoused its medicinal attributes When considering centuries. And, It really Really is they may have a dramatically reduced occurance of Cancer cells In addition , love disease. As well as are, of course, Several more difficulties The middle Hard anodized cookware Society And moreover ours. Notably, Judgement way different apt to be overweight; In addition , Nowadays into the market The company In which Somebody Is really Revealing Jeopardize Point Selecting effectively like Many cancers On top of that cardio disease. However, High quality System fact; Asiatische cultures, Significantly Japan Men?re much different organizing to blaze unlike what Our staff members are, In the nearby towns They can have a lower number of cases of Pisces Or cardiovascular system disease. So, Valuable tea Would be of Massive usefulness In your search for Have longest and become healthier. Relocation Many hundreds of Medical professionals should be fitted with demonstrated to Of the fact that Orange tea constitutes a Pisces Protection and that can Improve the overall Motivation of Tumor treatments. 
 
Source: http://www.greenteaextracthealth.com/treating-skin-cancer-with-green-tea.html
michigan football michigan football aron ralston aron ralston grandparents day 911 9/11 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged Tea 
 | 
Leave a reply




Love and Marriage: Millennials and American Families | worldwide …

Posted on September 12, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


by Morley Winograd and Michael D. Hais, demodirt.com ? What will American families be like in the Millennial era? 
Millennials (young Americans born from 1982-2003) are now beginning to marry and form their own families?or at least thinking about it. What will American families be like in the Millennial era? If history and generational theory provide any guide, Millennial families will be very different from the Baby Boomer and Generation X-parented families of the past four or five decades.
Social scientists define a generation as the aggregate of all people born over about a twenty-year period in a demographic group.  Together those who comprise a generation share a common location in history, and, according to survey research, common beliefs, behaviors, and perceived membership in their generation. Today, another new generation?the Millennial Generation ?is emerging into young adulthood.
Similar to other generational cohorts before them, Millennials were shaped by both the distinctive pattern of child rearing and the societal events they experienced during maturation. In their case, child rearing emphasized sheltered and supportive treatment, coupled with pressure to achieve and follow well-defined rules. Like their GI or Greatest Generation great grandparents of the 1930s and 1940s, Millennials emerged into a social environment that featured both a sharp economic decline and major international threats that tested their confidence and optimism. All of this is in sharp contrast to the ?hands-off? approach that the parents of Generation X (born 1965-1981) took with their offspring or the ?permissive, find your own values? methods that the parents of Baby Boomers (born 1946-1964) employed with their children.  As a result of what Millennials experienced as they matured, we can already identify some characteristics of the Millennial families that are just beginning to emerge.  
Millennial families will be increasingly diverse in their ethnicity, religious affiliation and practices, and the sexual orientation and lifestyles of partners and those raising children. In fact, Millennial era families will be so varied that it will almost not be meaningful to refer to a ?typical? American family. At 95 million, the Millennial Generation is the largest in American history. It is also the most ethnically and religiously diverse. Forty-percent of all Millennials, and about half of those still in high school and middle school, are non-white.  Only two-thirds (68%) are Christian, compared with about 80 percent of older Americans, and fewer than half (43%) are Protestant, in contrast to 53 percent of all older generations. About a quarter of Millennials are unaffiliated with any particular religious denomination. The generation?s attitudes on matters relating to family and marriage clearly indicate that Millennial families will reflect their ethnic and religious diversity. Only a scant five percent of Millennials disapprove of interracial marriage and fewer than one in four believe it is important to marry within one?s denomination.  Moreover,   less than a quarter of Millennials disapprove of couples living together without marriage (22%) or of mothers of young children working outside the home (23%). Even on the currently most controversial matter, two-thirds of Millennials (64%) believe that gay marriage should be legal, while only a third (32%) disapproves of gay couples raising children.  These diverse family arrangements are already reflected on TV sitcoms like Modern Family and Parenthood. In the decades ahead they will be equally common across all of American society. Read more?
Source: http://www.worldwidehippies.com/2011/09/10/love-and-marriage-millennials-and-american-families/
oregon ducks texas longhorns football brandon meriweather brandon meriweather monk serenity the good wife 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged generational cohorts, Millennials, societal events 
 | 
Leave a reply




Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees

Posted on September 12, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


A truck drives through hanging smoke near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011.  Texas is suffering its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. The Bastrop-area fire has been the largest of nearly 190 wildfires the forest service says erupted this week, leaving nearly 1,700 homes statewide in charred ruins, killing four people and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.   (AP Photo/LM Otero)
A truck drives through hanging smoke near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011.  Texas is suffering its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. The Bastrop-area fire has been the largest of nearly 190 wildfires the forest service says erupted this week, leaving nearly 1,700 homes statewide in charred ruins, killing four people and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.   (AP Photo/LM Otero)
A fresh team of firefighters just arrived from the Sequoia National Forest in California climb over a barbed wire fence on their way to put out hot spots on the fire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011.  (AP Photo/LM Otero)
In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains of her friend’s home that was destroyed by wildfires, in Bastrop, Texas. Scorching temperatures, strong winds and dry vegetation are turning Texas wildfires into fast and furious dangers that hop from place to place within hours, even minutes, and give residents little time to flee. Now it?s likely to get worse.  (AP Photo/Eric Gay, File)
Stairs sit in front of a home destroyed by wildfires Friday Sept. 9, 2011 near Whitney, Texas. Over 500 acres of land burned including six homes. (AP Photo/Waco Tribune-Herald, Duane A. Laverty)
A firefighter puts out hot spots at site of a wildfire Friday Sept. 9, 2011 near Whitney, Texas. Over 500 acres of land burned including six homes. (AP Photo/Waco Tribune-Herald, Duane A. Laverty)
 
BASTROP, Texas (AP) ? Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in reopened neighborhoods.
Firefighters focused on extinguishing hotspots and had isolated remaining flames from the blaze that has burned for almost a week in and around the city of Bastrop, destroying nearly 1,400 homes and sweeping across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape.
“We believe the forward progress (of the fire) has been stopped, thank God for that,” Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst told evacuated residents gathered at the fire command center.
Still, thousands of evacuees were prevented from returning to their homes for a sixth day because trees continued to burn underground, loose power lines hung from scorched poles and more than 800 firefighters were working to tamp down the remainder of the fire 25 miles east of Austin.
“It’s just really frustrating,” said Dee Redenius, 40, who came to the fire command center for answers. “You want to know if your house is there or if it’s not. … They don’t let you in, you know. You can’t get assistance.”
Dewhurst said the state is working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state emergency management personnel on specific fire declarations. FEMA spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said on Friday the agency “received the first request from the governor for individual aid to help Texas residents whose homes were damaged or destroyed in the fires, or who suffered other personal losses.”
She said FEMA would “work with the White House to review this request as expeditiously as possible.”
Dewhurst also made a public plea for President Barack Obama to make a major disaster declaration that he said would remove red tape and give the state access to more resources. Hours later, White House officials announced that Obama had signed a declaration declaring a major disaster exists in Texas.
The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.
“We need help yesterday … Mr. President, we need a statewide disaster declaration right away,” Dewhurst said prior to Obama’s declaration.
Texas is in the midst of its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.
The Texas Forest Service said Friday that the Bastrop fire had racked up a bill of at least $1.2 million so far. But the agency cautioned the figure was an early estimate and was expected to climb. The early price tag includes firefighting costs but not damage caused by the blaze.
A DC-10 jet originally meant to dump fire retardant on the Central Texas wildfires was diverted Friday to help firefighters with a stubborn 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties northwest of Houston. The fire in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties forced some people in the area to leave their homes, but was not threatening any towns or cities, Texas Forest Service spokesman Ralph Collum said.
In Bastrop, tables set up at the entrance to a neighborhood that had reopened a day earlier filled up with donated clothing and toiletries. A first aid station was assembled and streets began to buzz with tree-trimming crews and building contractors.
Officials also announced that schools would reopen Monday. But Bastrop Independent School District superintendent Steve Murray said, “We anticipate the homeless student count in Bastrop ISD to triple, quadruple or even more.”
To deal with that, school officials were developing plans to pick up students at hotels, shelters and other locations.
Monica Turner, 34, was growing more frustrated every day. She had seen photographs of her family’s house in ashes.
“We have pictures, but pictures don’t do any good when you need to have closure and you need to see it face to face,” she said. “I need to have that closure so that I can go and move on.”
___
Associated Press writers April Castro in Bastrop, Michael Graczyk in Houston, Paul Weber in San Antonio and Jamie Stengle in Dallas contributed to this report.
Associated Press
Source: http://hosted2.ap.org/APDEFAULT/3d281c11a96b4ad082fe88aa0db04305/Article_2011-09-10-Texas%20Wildfires/id-a559646765184a74acf7278fa346df02
rush limbaugh aaron maybin aaron maybin shark attack shark attack abercrombie abercrombie 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged state 
 | 
Leave a reply




Video: Social Security and the 2012 race

Posted on September 11, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


Post 9/11: 10 years of conflict in the world
“At War,” an exhibit featuring the work of Associated Press photographer Anja Niedringhaus, opens Saturday in Berlin and chronicles 10 years of conflict from the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S. to the present.
Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3036697/vp/44445138#44445138
resistance 3 austin tx nascar news us postal service trey songz wcc hugh jackman 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged anja niedringhaus, conflict, us postal service 
 | 
Leave a reply




Firefighters have yet to control Texas wildfire 
    (AP)

Posted on September 9, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


BASTROP, Texas ? One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.
Raging with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin. An elite search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.
Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased humidity was moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report some containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said.
“Tonight should be a good night, tomorrow should be a good day ? we hope,” Nichols said late Tuesday. “The reason why it hasn’t been able to be contained is the wind. We still have a lot of active fire on the line, but today was the first day we had very light wind.”
The blaze is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit.
In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements’ two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames.
“We lost everything,” said Clements, who with his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, “United We Stand.”
“This is the beginning of our new family album,” the 51-year-old said.
Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. He later deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,” Perry said after the tour. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.”
The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.
About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.
The disaster is blamed largely on Texas’ yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.
At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including an 8,000-acre blaze that destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas’ Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland. And in Grimes County, about 40 miles northwest of Houston, a 3,000-acre fire destroyed nearly two dozen homes and threatened hundreds more.
In at least one neighborhood in Bastrop, flames hop-scotched a street where houses were tucked among oaks, pines and cedar trees. The Postal Service delivered mail to burned homes where only mailboxes were left standing.
John Chapman’s home on about 20 acres was only singed and had some smoke damage, but the vintage-car collector lost about 175 vehicles he kept in a garage or under pole barns. His losses included about a dozen Corvettes and a Shelby Cobra.
As ashes swirled and tree stumps still spit flames, the 70-year-old Chapman pointed out the melted remains of a 1966 Pontiac GTO, a ’57 Chevrolet pickup and a 1947 Studebaker pickup, and said: “You can either laugh or you can cry. You might as well laugh.” 
 “The house is safe, my wife and I are alive and good, and I’m not going to worry about it,” he said. 
 About 40 people who fled their homes were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires. 
 “The first night, we had a child 17 months old,” she said. “We didn’t have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal.” 
 ___ 
 Michael Graczyk reported from Houston. Also contributing to this story were Associated Press reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin, Paul Weber in San Antonio, and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop.
Source: http://us.rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/rss/gop/*http%3A//news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20110907/ap_on_re_us/us_texas_wildfires
taxi castle the hangover 2 ncaa football 12 ncaa football 12 sumo sumo 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged texas forest service, Tuesday, wildfire outbreaks 
 | 
Leave a reply




Skipper washed overboard, swims for 9 hours

Posted on September 9, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


 ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. ?? A St. Augustine sailboat captain who fell off a sailboat and spent nine hours clinging to a cooler and paddling to shore talked about his experience. 
     



     Only on msnbc.com
 


    
     Watch the entire GOP debate
      

 
     Is Apollo’s past spoiling our future in space? 
      

 
     Iconic 9/11 figures: Where are they now?
      

 
     US, Europe switch roles in world banking crisis
      

 
     Trying to track the IHOP gun’s path from China
      

 
     Breast-feeding turns new mothers into mama bears
      

 
     How 9/11 and Geraldo changed my life
      
 

 
Brian Oliver, 45, was on his boat, the Cedar Rose, when it got caught in a storm Monday, three miles offshore. 
After he was cast into the water, the Coast Guard and several other agencies spent hours searching for Oliver. 
Oliver was hired to fix the electronics on the 42-foot boat and wanted to make sure they worked. 
“This was mainly a test run and a little pleasure cruise, and it kind of turned into a little bit of a nightmare,” Oliver said. 
Oliver and the boat owners left at sunrise out of Ponce Inlet were headed to St. Augustine. 
“Everything was doing real well. Pretty day. Nice wind. (We) set a course for three miles out at Ponce Inlet,” Oliver said. 
Oliver said he put the boat on autopilot, hoisted the sails, and shut off the motor. 
At about 3 p.m. Monday, 30 miles shy of St. Augustine, the boat hit a squall. 
“You could hear it coming, just a whooo,” Oliver said. “The next thing you know, it hit us and the boat listed. I mean, like, it was fixing to go over.” 



     More Tales of Survival
 


 
     Skipper washed overboard, swims for 9 hours
      

 
     She survived four days in wilderness eating bugs, slugs
      

    
     Cyclist gets pinned under car’s wheel, survives
      

 
     Teen buried in sand: ?I thought I was going to die?
      

 
     Woman attacked by bear: ?She ran straight for me?
      
 

 
Instead, Oliver went overboard, along with a cooler. 
The waves were so big he couldn’t get back to the boat, which had quickly been pushed farther out to sea. 
He thought quickly, tied the strings of his bathing suit onto the handle of the cooler and used it as a floatation device. 
“Had enough string where it would stay off to the side like this, kind of out of my way, so I dog-paddled, and then when I needed to rest, I just turned around and hold onto the handle and drift in the water,” Oliver said. 
Oliver said he saw the Coast Guard helicopter three times and tried to wave, but it was too choppy. 
The current was so strong, he ended up swimming nearly five miles. 
Just after midnight, after about nine hours of dog paddling with a cooler, he finally made it to shore. 
“First wave that picked me up sucked me up to the beach, second one carried me and the cooler on in,” Oliver said. “Seeing my feet touch ground, I was like, ‘Whew, I made it.’” 
    
Source: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44432086/ns/us_news-life/
strauss kahn internet speed test chely wright chely wright goldman sachs libya news charleston sc 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged Skipper 
 | 
Leave a reply




Booker shortlist to be announced | Gossip Blender

Posted on September 8, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


The latest gossip and news written in the BBC News – Entertainment & Arts reports…
 Thirteen authors – among them bookies’ favourite Julian Barnes – will find out shortly if their works have made it onto this year’s Man Booker Prize shortlist. More. 
What do  you think of this gossip about Booker shortlist to be announced have your say below…
  <!– 	 		 	–>
Source: http://gossipblender.com/uncategorized/booker-shortlist-to-be-announced/
tampa bay rays t mobile twilight rush limbaugh rush limbaugh aaron maybin aaron maybin 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged booker prize shortlist, Gossip, limbaugh rush 
 | 
Leave a reply




UK first school application facing financial crisis | Articles …

Posted on September 6, 2011  by  postarmrio 

Reply 


A recent report in The Telegraph said that many thousands of college youngsters faced being left without first school places in coming years thanks to the critical shortage in numbers of places in major cities and towns across the UK.
I perspnally know this is just the top of iceberg. We have seen local councils across Britain being forced to install mobile school rooms, porta-cabins and even expand schools to avert a major acknowledgments crisis. The info follows a sharp rise in the birth rate 4 years back and a general rise in the population have combined to create a jump and a demand in school admissions.
The situation saw parents in the some areas needing to seperate their youngsters and send them to different faculties. As you can imagine this could create an impossibble situation for some parents and they are unable to juggle the highschool run and commute to work.
Many local councils and authorities have warned the problem will reach crisis point over the next few years, as the quantity of four and five year-olds entering state education in to elementary school or infant school system carries on growing.
It’s been suggested by several local authorities that without a major cash injection some kids may be left without places by as early as 2015 leading to some parents needing to provide home schooling, which is another area of concern for parents. Should they consider home education and what kind of support and information is available for them if they took the choice to teach their kid or children at home.
School Admissions started off as a voluntary organisation to provide help, support, guidance and steering to troubled elders in the the UK. The number of requests for help grew and they create The School Admissions Guide book which is an in depth book on how parents of children in Englad, Scotland or Wales can sign up for school places and guarantee their kid gains a place in the school that is correct for all the family.
School Admissions provide help and support to elders who are concerned about securing a place for their child. The suppoirt is to ensure yoiur child is allocated a place in school that is suitable for them.
Source: http://articlesentertainment.com/reference-education/uk-first-school-application-facing-financial-crisis
ocean city nj rush hour rush hour holes da vinci code new england new england 



Posted in marvelous 
 | 

Tagged admissions guide, Home, porta cabins 
 | 
Leave a reply



Post navigation
← Older posts





valuing accrued erudition
watch Utah State Aggies vs Auburn Tigers live streaming Online …

Watch Utah State Aggies vs Auburn Tigers live stream Online on pc today of NCAA Football.there will be very exciting match for the NCAA Football viewers because of the previous highly competition.This exclusive Match will be held in between Utah … Continue reading →




PHOTOS: North Korea's Mangyongbong Sets Sail | FierceReason.com


 August 31, 2011
 Originally Published By: World on HuffingtonPost.com
 Read the Original Article Here
 In an effort to cast a wider tourism net, North Korea has repurposed a ferry formerly used to shuttle passengers to and from Japan, as … Continue reading →




Articles 20VN | What's the Best Racquet String? | racquet …

[unable to retrieve full-text content]Articles 20VN ? Recreation – Sports. What's the Best Racquet String? Saturday, May 21, 2011 |0 Comment. I've played racquet sports for years, and had little to no idea about the different types of strings available, … Continue reading →




student loans for bad credit ? Student Finance for Bad Credit …

There are many advances which are offered with credit check. But this can be a problem for those students who have poor financial status. If you have a desire to take an advance without any credit check, then you can … Continue reading →




Elder Care Planning Guide : Home & Family

Elder Care Planning Guide Article by Rosie Fletcher Q. When do you need a care facility? A. A residential care facility should be taken into account when at least one of the following circumstances happens: – Your elderly relative requires … Continue reading →



a vista birds eye view…anxiety relief
body
Brega
Business
Choise
Coffee
Consulting
coverage
emma bonino
Exchange
facility
football hall of fame
foreign exchange markets
holly madison
Home
human resources firm
insurance strategies
low calorie foods
low carbohydrate diet
manual dexterity
market currency
Moon
Music
percent
phone
pong
pro football hall
rate
Release
sacred substance
Science
security
sf giants
shame
Stories
Throne
time
TNF
topaz
Union
Vaporizer
vaporizer volcano
volcano vaporizers
weather construction
wind
 



Proudly powered by WordPress



