Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in | CharlotteObserver.com & The Charlotte Observer Newspaper');
    }
-->


















































































 Nation








News

Local News
Crime
Education
Politics
Nation
World
Weird
Special Reports
Obituaries
Blogs/Columnists
Data Center
Public Notices
Today's Paper



Sports

Carolina Panthers / NFL
Charlotte Bobcats / NBA
Blogs/Columnists
High Schools
That's Racin'
College Hoops
College Football
Golf


Knights/Baseball
Checkers/Hockey
Other Sports


Entertainment

Events
Movies
Contests
Celebrities
Dining
Arts
Music / Nightlife
Television
Books
Comics & Games
Horoscopes
Blogs/Columnists


Living Here

Celebrations
Education
Faith & Values
Food
Health & Family
Home & Garden
Style
Travel
Living Here Guide
Blogs/Columnists


Carolina Bride Magazine
Lake Norman Magazine
South Park Magazine
UCity Magazine


Business

Market Summary
Banking
Blogs/Columnists


Opinion

Kevin Siers
Blogs/Columnists
Reader Forums


Shop

Dealsaver
FindnSave
Online Coupons
Newspaper Ads
Special Sections
Buy Photos


Jobs

New Jobs in Charlotte Region
Advanced Search
Freelance, Contract & Part-time
Job Seeker Toolkit
Post a Job


Homes

Houses
Apartments
Mortgages
Schools
Property Taxes
Newcomers' Guide
Blogs/Columnists


Autos

New Car Search
Used Car Search
Certified Pre-Own
Sell Your Car
Blue Book Values


Classifieds

Legal Notices
Create an Ad



































Hello Guest
Login

 Contact Us



Advertise
Letter to the Editor
Issues with Website
Photo Store
News & Info Tips
Newspaper Corrections
Newspaper Account
Staff Listing
E-Edition
More...



Home Delivery



Delivery Problem
Vacation Stop
Account Inquiry
Make a Payment
Subscribe to Newspaper
Subscribe to TV Magazine
Newspapers in Education
E-Edition
Any Other Reason



Subscribe


Advertise With Us



Online Media Kit
Advertising
Classified Ads
Retail Ads
National Ads
Magazine Ads
Online Ads
Direct Marketing


















Web Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH







 charlotteobserver.com
 Web
 Archives







Weather
Traffic




67°

Mostly Sunny | Forecast






Map
Trouble Spots
Key Routes




I-77N  |  I-77S  |  I-85N
I-85S  |  I-277  |  I-485N
I-485S  |  74E  |  74W  |  521




















0 comments







Print



 Share







Tool Name
Close


        tool goes here
    








Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in



By CHRISTOPHER SHERMANAssociated Press CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN       Associated Press      
Posted: Thursday, Sep. 08, 2011
Modified: Thursday, Sep. 08, 2011









Slideshow

« Prev  of  Next » 





http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/07/20/05/901-ZUbY0.Em.55.jpg|210
Montgomery Fire Firefighter, Reed Griffith crosses the fire south of Todd Mission, Texas in Waller County on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011. Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.  (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Mayra Beltran) MANDATORY CREDIT








Buy Photo  | Store



http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/07/15/29/370-1pNgLm.Em.55.jpg|206
Homes destroyed by wildfire are seen Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/07/15/29/856-1b3WkE.Em.55.jpg|470
A homes destroyed by wildfire is seem among burned trees, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, near Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/07/15/29/545-1qpALq.Em.55.jpg|474
A row of homes destroyed by wildfire are seen, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.


http://media.charlotteobserver.com/smedia/2011/09/07/15/29/910-1edJbK.Em.55.jpg|210
An area destroyed by wildfire surrounds a water tower, Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop. A search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.





More Information






Video







Video







Video







Video









    BASTROP, Texas    Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home.
In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make four trips loading clothes and a few important possessions into his Mustang. He could feel the blaze's heat and hear the crackling roar as he packed his car. Less than two hours after they drove away for the last time Sunday, the Bastrop Complex fire consumed his home and six other houses of relatives who all lived within about four square miles of each other.
"My house, my sister-in-law, her brother, my mother-in-law and three brothers-in-law houses are gone," the 53-year-old bail bondsman said Wednesday outside the county convention center where he came to find out about federal assistance. "Everything's gone now."
Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety. The White House said President Barack Obama telephoned Gov. Rick Perry to say the federal government would continue providing firefighting assistance and quickly assess requests for more aid.
Many Bastrop residents said they had received cell phone photos or videos from those who sneaked back into the fire zone or from volunteer firefighters and police who checked on friends' homes. Others were left to crowd around lists of the lost street addresses posted at the county convention center.
The fire was about 30 percent contained Wednesday and firefighters hoped to take advantage of low winds to make more progress. The destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week - one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which has been blamed for a total of four deaths.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.
Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team, mobilized Wednesday in Bastrop to search the smoldering ruins for more victims. But several thousand people successfully evacuated ahead of the fire, and Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said about 2,500 people had stopped by one of the county's shelters. Many more people likely stayed with family or friends.
Some residents needed no urging to leave because they saw the flames lapping at the trees. Others heard from friends and neighbors, while still others found a sheriff's deputy at their door or heard firemen rolling down the street with bullhorns. In most cases no one had to be told twice. A wildfire here two years ago drove people from their homes and everyone knew about the severity of the drought.
That was the case for Jose "Pepe" Gomez, 57, who had just returned from church to his girlfriend's house Sunday afternoon.
"We were going to celebrate my girlfriend's grandson's birthday, who is only two ...We were going to have a pool party at her swimming pool, have cake for the kids, then they said 'get out,'" Gomez said. "We got evacuated from three locations on that same day. In less than 12 hours we were evacuated three times."
"When you looked up you could see this huge cloud ... we knew it was serious," he said.
Gomez said his girlfriend lost everything after having only enough time to grab a little clothing for her kids and a Bible.
"She was in hysteria when she was told her house was leveled," Gomez said. It was the second home she lost to fire.
Brenda Sanders, a 63-year-old hospice nurse whose home had so far survived the blaze, said she had been oblivious to the fire until a sheriff's deputy came to her door. She and her husband had about 20 minutes to gather items. They grabbed the flags that were on their fathers' caskets, some important insurance documents, mementos from her husband's high school and college football career and their cats.
"It's just been a nightmare," she said. "It's been surreal, the whole experience."
Her friend Denise Rodgers, 56, a hospice chaplain, was not so fortunate. Her house in Tahitian Village burned. First, a friend sent her a photo showing her house untouched. "I was thinking I was in the clear." But later she received a shaky video of the flames circling her home and climbing up one side.
"I could see it coming, you know, over the trees," Rodgers said of her last minutes in the house. "I could see the pink glow so I knew it was close."    



    Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

























This affects comments on all stories.







The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all, but do keep it civil. Please refrain from profanity, obscenity, spam, name-calling or attacking others for their views.   Read moreRead less

 The Charlotte region is vast and diverse. The more voices engaged in conversation, the better for us all. The Charlotte Observer welcomes your comments on news of the day, but we ask that you keep the discourse civil.

Do not use profanity or obscenities. And don't try to camouflage profanity with asterisks, abbreviations or other symbols or foreign phrases. 
Do not use threatening language. Talk of violence won't be tolerated. 
No racial, gender or sexual-orientation name-calling. 
Do not attack other commenters for their views. Do not libel or defame anyone or violate their privacy. 
Keep your comments succinct and stay on topic. Comments that bear no relation to the story may be deleted. 
Do not add images to your comments. 
Do not report comments as abusive simply because you disagree with them. Report them only if they violate these guidelines. 
Do not post spam or advertising of any kind. 
Do not post a comment using all capital letters. 

We do not monitor each and every posting, but we reserve the right to block or delete comments that violate these rules. 
You can help: Notify us of violations by hitting the "Report Abuse" link. Users who continue posting comments that violate these guidelines may, at our discretion, be blocked from submitting future comments as well. 
And finally, as Mark Twain said: "Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest." 
Enjoy the discussion. 









































Get the Deal!















Value:
Discount:
You Save:


































Quick Job Search







Enter Keyword(s):



Enter a City:





Select a State:

All United States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



Select a Category:

All Job Categories
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive1
Banking1
Biotech1
Broadcast - Journalism1
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse






Advanced Job Search |
Search by Category





Salary Databases

City of Charlotte |
Mecklenburg County 
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools





Charlotte Observer Featured Jobs »





» See More Featured Jobs













Events
Dining
Movies




 

Charlotte Sunset Jazz Festival -- Outdoor Concert
Saturday, September 17, 2:00PM
Marshall Park
 

47th Festival In The Park
Friday, September 23, 4:00PM
Festival in the Park

More EventsMore Venues











Recent Blogs

Campaign Tracker  
Machine gun socials return to the 8th
Your Schools  
CMS leadership: Stability and change
Your Schools  
Rethinking retention
Tommy's Table  
A few extras for Saturday's 9/11 column
Earth & Energy  
More wind power in Duke's future





Lottery

North Carolina Powerball: 9/14/2011  
16-41-42-50-59  PB5  PP3North Carolina Mega Millions: 9/13/2011  
22-31-43-48-56  MB45  MP4Carolina Cash 5: 9/14/2011  
4-13-14-22-33Carolina Pick 4 Daytime: 9/14/2011  
5-7-3-7Carolina Pick 4 Evening: 9/14/2011  
3-8-5-8Carolina Pick 3 Daytime: 9/14/2011  
8-9-8Carolina Pick 3 Evening: 9/14/2011  
9-8-3

































Most Viewed

Former youth worker faces sex charges
It's good to be No. 1, Gamble says positively
A Democrat against labor? Yes, NLRB-Boeing fight hurts N.C.
District 3 primary winner distances herself from attack ads
Enquirer: Sarah Palin had fling with hoops star
Lake Norman boat renters resist safety requirement
Report: QB died after taking methadone
A jobs plan that puts Washington to work
Packers more than just a team
Labor Dept. orders Bank of America to reinstate, pay whistleblower $930,000



























Contact Us »

Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Report a broken link
Staff Listing



Submit Content

Upload your pictures
Upload your videos
News tips




Advertise With Us »

Classified Ads
 Retail Ads
 National Ads
 Magazine Ads
 Online Ads
Direct Marketing



Online Extras

RSS Feeds
Mobile version
Charlotte's got a lot



Observer Network

ThatsRacin.com
MomsCharlotte.com
twitter/theobserver
Observer on Facebook










Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Copyright
About The Charlotte Observer
About the McClatchy Company







































