Stand Up Paddle Board Race Benefiting Wildfire Victims - Press Release - Digital Journal











Email
Password
Remember meForgot password? 



Log in with Facebook

		Connect your Digital Journal account with Facebook to use this feature. 




















Contribute»









Log In Sign Up   Connect







Home
Arts Business Crime Education Entertainment Environment Food Health Internet Lifestyle Politics Religion Science Sports Technology Travel World 




Trending
				     David Weprin     Roger ebert     Tiff     Committee for the Republic of Canada     Air canada     Leanne     lauren ambrose     think of me     Television     Toronto police services     Taliban     Saudi arabia     Nancy Shevell     Elizabeth warren     Pork 







More:
Blogs»
Top Blogs»
Latest Blogs»
Post Blog»

Images»
Top Images»
Latest Images»
Upload Images»

Groups»
View Groups»
Create a Group»

Live Events»
News Alerts»
Create an Alert»
Manage Alerts»

Help»
Get paid to report news»
Post blogs»
Upload images»
Embed video»
Join/create groups»
Like news, blogs & images»
Comment & debate»









 

















More press releases»

Press Release


Stand Up Paddle Board Race Benefiting Wildfire Victims
>PRWEB.COM Newswire




Austin, Texas (PRWEB) September 09, 2011  Paddle Zen of Austin, Texas will be holding a Stand Up Paddle Board race, Paddle Board demos and Paddle Board Yoga classes during a benefit with free beer and food, live music and a silent auction on Sunday, September 11. They have teamed up with the Austin Community Foundation to raise funds for the Central Texas Wildfire Fund; benefiting victims of the wildfires in Central Texas including Bastrop, Leander and Steiner Ranch.
At 9:00 AM CST on September 11, 2011, Paddle Zen will host a 3.5 mile Stand Up Paddle Board race. Admission to the race is $40 and includes the race, free beer and food. Participants are encouraged to bring their own boards; however, for people without boards, the $40 will include board rental until there are no boards left. Medals will be given to the top three men and the top three women. For those who wish to attend but not participate, a $15 spectator fee will allow you to watch the race, hear live music and get free food and beer. All proceeds will be donated to the Central Texas Wildfire Fund.
Many Austin-area businesses are helping out to support this event. Thirsty Planet will be supplying the beer and Lucy’s Retired Surfer Bar and Rock Star Bagels will be donating food. T-shirts for the event – available for purchase- have been generously donated by River City Sportswear. The silent auction includes prizes from Holiday Inn, CapCity Comedy Club, Capitol Cruises, Duchman Family Winery, The Bar Method, Capra & Cavelli, and many others.
“Our hearts go out to the Victims of the wildfires in Central Texas,” says Lori Long, owner of Paddle Zen. “We hope that by hosting a fun, unique event like this, we will be able to raise money to help the people who have lost their homes because of this awful disaster. We’re glad to be able to work with Austin Community Foundation to raise money for the Central Texas Wildfire Fund.”
Race registration opens at 8am and the race starts at 9am, followed by the yoga classes and demos at 10. Awards will begin promptly at 11am. For more information, contact Paddle Zen directly at 512.462.0732, visit their website at http://www.paddlezen.com or http://www.facebook.com/Paddlezen.
About Paddle Zen: Paddle Zen is a Stand Up Paddle board retailer and rental company located in the AMLI building at 1620 East Riverside in Austin, Texas. They offer paddle board sales and rentals, paddle board demos, yoga and Pilates paddle board classes and more.
###
Read the full story at http://www.prweb.com/releases/2011/9/prweb8780468.htm























Buy an ad on DigitalJournal.com











Corporate

Contact Us

About Us

Media Center

Advertise

Top Digital Journalists

Investors & Partners

Board of Advisers



Help & Support

Help Center

Frequently Asked Questions

Editorial Guidelines

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy

Code of Conduct






News Links

News Alerts

Digital Journal News

Digital Journal Mobile

Digital Journal Television

Digital Journal Magazine

Global Press Releases





copyright © 1998-2011 digitaljournal.com   |   powered by dell servers












Show toolbar





Go to top



					Email this
				



					Share on Facebook
				




Tweet




Leaked nude Scarlett Johansson photos lead to FBI investigation



Op-Ed: Mayweather vs. Ortiz — Will Victor Ortiz carry Pacquiao's torch?



Minnesota wildfire smoke spreads hundreds of miles away











Recipient email:

You can enter up to 10 comma-separated email addresses.






Your email:optional



Message:optional



 


























Stand Up Paddle Board Race Benefiting Wildfire Victims









