'Mother Nature Has The Upper Hand' In Texas Wildfire Fight : NPR  










NPR Shop | 
				NPR Social Media | 
				Login | 
				Register










Find a Station









Search








close
 



home
news
arts & life
music
programs
listen






news

Morning Edition
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
The Diane Rehm Show
On The Media
On Point
Talk of the Nation


Talk of the Nation Science Friday
Tell Me More
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
Also heard on NPR stations:
Marketplace APM



arts & life

Car Talk
Radiolab
Snap Judgment
Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!
Also heard on NPR stations:
This American Life PRI
A Prairie Home Companion APM



music

All Songs Considered
From The Top
JazzSet
Marian McPartland's Piano Jazz
Mountain Stage


Song of the Day
The Thistle & Shamrock
World Cafe
World of Opera



special series

StoryCorps
Planet Money
Picture Show
Krulwich Wonders...



PUBLIC RADIO PROGRAMS A-Z  | close






hear continuous streams




24-Hour Program Stream
NPR News and Shows


View Schedule
Find Stations | Music Streams




hear the latest news




Hourly News Summary
[4 min 45 sec]
Latest NPR Newscast





Public Radio Programs A-Z | close














News >
U.S. >
Around the Nation






Twitter (28)
Facebook (790)
Share

Stumble Upon
Reddit
Linkedin
Digg

What is this?


Share



Comments 





                         
                     

 
'Mother Nature Has The Upper Hand' In Wildfire Fight


by John Burnett








September 5, 2011 




Listen to the Story
All Things Considered 
                              [3 min 47 sec]
                           



Add to Playlist
Download
Transcript


                            
                        






 
Enlarge Ron Jenkins/AP/The Fort Worth Star-Telegram A helicopter returns to the lake to refill its tank for a water drop on fires on Aug. 31, 2011 near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas. By Monday, the worst fire was in Bastrop County, just southeast of Austin, where the  blaze had been burning out of control for more than a day.







Ron Jenkins/AP/The Fort Worth Star-Telegram A helicopter returns to the lake to refill its tank for a water drop on fires on Aug. 31, 2011 near Possum Kingdom Lake, Texas. By Monday, the worst fire was in Bastrop County, just southeast of Austin, where the  blaze had been burning out of control for more than a day.








                                                      text size                           A A A


September 5, 2011

A tinderbox landscape and unusually windy conditions have caused more than 60 wildfires to explode across Central and East Texas — creating a hellish Labor Day for thousands of Texans. Two people have been killed so far. The worst fire is in Bastrop County, just southeast of Austin, where the blaze has been burning out of control for more than a day. No one in Bastrop has ever seen anything like it. The tall, pine forests that were a favorite getaway for campers and city commuters have erupted into an inferno. Driven by a relentless north wind, the blaze has jumped a broad, four-lane highway and the Colorado River — twice —as it keeps getting bigger. "When it first started we were out there, we got overran, we had to get out. We had to evacuate and it just burned everything in its path. Forest, houses, everything, cars, anything that was there was burned," says Carolyn Laird, who is a firefighter — along with her daughter Devan — for the Bastrop Fire Department. But, with the wind and these dry conditions can firefighters fight the fire? "No, the only thing you can do is get people out," Devan Laird says. "At this point all you can do is let the fire take its course and hopefully everybody is out in time." Throughout town, people stop where they are, shade their eyes and gaze toward the east where a great billow of smoke rises into the cloudless sky, turning from grey-brown to dirty-white as it drifts south. Now and again, a helicopter or air tanker flies there, looking tiny against the immensity of the smoke cloud. By Monday afternoon, authorities reported the blaze had damaged or destroyed more than 400 homes, and that figure is expected to rise. Five thousand people have evacuated. A group of evacuees gathers in the parking lot of a Shell station on Highway 95, at a police roadblock about seven miles from the fire. 




Mother Nature has the upper hand and we'll try our best. Safety for firefighters and public first.





- Mike Simmons, U.S. Forest Service


"We left about 6 last night. The power went out at 5:30 for good," says Nancy Allen, who evacuated her home with her husband and their 4-year-old daughter, Minny, along with three dogs and three roosters, packing them into two vehicles, and racing away from the approaching flames. "Called the power company, I went outside to get a better signal, looked up, [saw] huge smoke clouds and I knew it wasn't normal," Allen says. They've been at the gas station ever since. "We slept here last night in the parking lot, I didn't sleep a lot," she says. "Woke up, praying, crying, go back to sleep for a minute, pray, cry. We got a lot of people helping and everything for us." Allen and her neighbor, Evelyn Sanky, comfort one another. "I was at state park. When I got there literally three minutes after I arrived I was evacuated," she says, choking back tears. "It's something that you have to live it to know what we're going through." Gov. Rick Perry, who was campaigning for president in South Carolina, abruptly flew back to Texas on Monday. 

 
High Winds Whip Up Texas Wildfires
The Texas Forest Service said more than 50 fires had burned through some 30,000 tinder-dry acres.






A beleaguered spokesperson for the Texas Forest Service said, "We've completely depleted our resources. We're on every fire we can possibly handle and then some." Firefighters are streaming here from all over the state, and beyond its borders. Mike Simmons, from Lake Tahoe, Calif., sits in a U.S. Forest Service water truck idling beside the highway, waiting for a bulldozer to arrive, so they can go join the fight. "Mother Nature has the upper hand and we'll try our best," he says. "Safety for firefighters and public first." The fire is so fast and so hot, devouring dried-out loblolly pine forest, that it's still largely being fought from aircraft. The ground battle will follow.

 
                      
                  




Twitter (28)
Facebook (790)
Share

Stumble Upon
Reddit
Linkedin
Digg

What is this?


Share



Comments 





                      
                  



More Around the Nation



Podcast + RSS Feeds


Podcast RSS




Around the Nation
Subscribe to Around the Nation podcast via:  Or use this URL: 
 close 
       
   



    


All Things Considered–
    




                                     
                                 













Around the Nation
Maryland Football Uniforms Are Vibrant On Purpose
Schools create uniforms in search of a hip image, grabbing the attention of prospective  recruits.


Education
Md. Teachers Must Promote Environmental Literacy
Under the new requirement, environmental literacy will become a district-wide priority.


Economy
Rate Of Homeless Female Vets Rises Near Fort Bragg
In Fayetteville, N.C., the number of homeless female veterans is rising rapidly.





                            
                        






&nbsp 
Comments
  Discussions for this story are now closed. Please see the Community FAQ for more information. 
                      
                  





Recent First
Oldest First
Most Recommended

 


View all comments »















NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR Sponsor 








most popular




Viewed
Recommended
Commented


For A Marine Hero, A Medal Of Honor
Making It In The U.S.: More Than Just Hard Work
Ebert: A 'Life' Still Being Lived, And Fully
Lord, Save Me From The Krebs Cycle























Crisis In The Housing Market>


Mortgage Savings: Leaders Seek Refinancing Options

Mortgage Default Warnings Surged In August AP


Mortgage Rates Hit A New Low AP











podcast



Weekends On All Things Considered Podcast
Missed All Things Considered this weekend? Here's the best of what you might've missed.
Feed
Subscribe in iTunes
Listen Now








       





             
         







npr always on

Newsletters
Podcasts
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Widgets
API
Radio




news

U.S.
World
Opinion
Politics
Business
Technology
Science
Health
Sports



arts & life

Books
Movies
Pop Culture
Food
Performing Arts
Games & Humor



music

Concerts
Music Lists
Music Interviews
Music News
Music Blogs
Rock/Pop/Folk
Jazz & Blues
Classical
Browse Artists A-Z


All Songs Considered
From The Top
JazzSet
Marian McPartland's Piano Jazz
Mountain Stage
Song of the Day
The Thistle & Shamrock
World Cafe
World Of Opera



programs a-z

Morning Edition
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
The Diane Rehm Show
On The Media
On Point
Talk of the Nation
Tell Me More
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
Car Talk
Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!



listen

Hourly News
NPR Program Stream
Schedule
Find Station Streams



more

Multimedia
Columns
Blogs
Analysis
Commentary
NPR Ombudsman
Topic Index
StateImpact

about

This Is NPR
Support and Sponsor
Press Room
Careers
NPR Shop
Contact Us





Copyright  NPR
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Permissions
Corrections
Text-Only Site
Help
Contact Us
Donate
Our partner in public broadcasting 








  