Latest News - powered by FeedBurner
&



Latest News

A podcast powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based podcatchers. Click your choice below:







...with iTunes:

Add to iTunes

...with something else (copy this address):




Get more info on other podcatchers:






 View Feed XML




A podcast is rich media, such as audio or video, distributed via RSS. Feeds like this one provide updates whenever there is new content. FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in popular podcatchers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Exposed to asbestos fibers


Posted:  Tue, 13 Sep 2011 00:49:23 PDT
Latest News - Doctors still have much to learn about mesothelioma and how best to treat patients diagnosed with this aggressive cancer linked with asbestos exposure.
To better understand the causes and consequences of mesothelioma, researchers from Creighton University School of Medicine and the Thomas Jefferson School of Medicine in Philadelphia retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 924 veterans diagnosed with malignant pleural mesothelioma between 1995 and 2009 and listed in the Veterans Affairs Cancer Registry.
The median age of the veterans with malignant pleural mesothelioma was 71, according to the researchers who presented their findings at the American Society of Clinical Oncology conference June 3-7 in Chicago. The median age of the veterans with mesothelioma is a reminder of the typical 20-year to 50-year delay between exposure to asbestos and appearance of asbestos disease symptoms. Many veterans of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard likely were exposed to asbestos in their 20s and 30s, but didn’t notice any respiratory symptoms for decades.
From the 1940 through the 1970s, millions of veterans were exposed to asbestos which was widely used in building materials, automotive parts, ships and insulation. The use of asbestos was restricted starting in the late 1970s because of its toxicity to humans. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, veterans who served in shipyards, mining, insulation work, carpentry and construction, demolition of old buildings, and the manufacture of friction products such as brakes were most likely exposed to asbestos.
In the new study published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, the researchers reported that the median survival for the veterans with mesothelioma was seven months.  Veterans who had malignant mesothelioma that had not spread and underwent surgery or surgery combined with chemotherapy or radiation tended to live longer.
Nearly 90 percent of veterans diagnosed with malignant pleural mesothelioma were Caucasian and about 9 percent were African American.
In the analysis, some factors observed among the veterans correlated with longer survival including younger age, diagnosis of early stage cancer, the type of cellular structure of the mesothelioma and receipt of surgery.
Approximately, 3,000 people are diagnosed with mesothelioma in the U.S. each year. Most are workers and veterans who were exposed to asbestos for an extended period on the job decades ago.





Lady-like third album


Posted:  Mon, 12 Sep 2011 16:13:27 PDT
Latest News - Lady Antebellum was never, ever going to be the most testosterone-driven band in music. But the multi-platinum country-pop trio is still a little too lady-like for its own good on the group's third album, "We Own the Night," which mostly aims for ownership of the market for old-fashioned adult-contemporary balladry.The act's last album was a hard hat trick to top. The title track of "Need You Now" quickly established itself as one of the greatest pop singles of our still-young century, and went on to sell 5 million downloads, not to mention scoring Record and Song of the Year wins at the Grammys.The craving for an ex in that song (which also got its inevitable "Glee" cover) translated to a craving for the bravura tune itself, and proved America to be one very needy nation.No one would blame Lady A for taking stabs at repeating that triumph here, but it's as if the threesome figured what we loved most about that breakout smash was the plodding tempo and production slickness, not the emotional rawness and relatable references to drunk-dialing that cut right through the sheen.You may hesitate to look a gift horse in the mouth, when Lady A is one of the few country acts around offering such gentlemanly counterpoint to the genre's redneck strains.It's still a pleasure hearing a group whose very foundation is neatly balanced male/female duets. When it comes to audience demographics, though, the band is inviting inequity, as there won't be an overabundance of dudes crawling over one another to hear a succession of orchestrated ballads idealizing past and present perfect loves.You certainly won't find any odes to one-night-stands (like the debut album's rascally "Lookin' for a Good Time") making their way into the current material.The not terribly rowdy "Friday Night" represents the album's token attempt at an up-tempo, good-time anthem, as if they suddenly remembered they needed something new that wouldn't drag their usually robust concerts to a halt.Coming off an album that had three singles as great as "Need You Now," "American Honey," and "Hello World" (last heard stirring TV fans at the climax of an "NCIS"), Lady A's new weepers can't help but suffer by comparison."Just a Kiss," the album's first single, has front-people Hillary Scott and Charles Kelley treating the beginning of a relationship with kid gloves and agreeing: "I don't want to mess this thing up/I don't want to push too far."Those words could serve as the mantra for "We Own the Night," which is all about not messing with monstrous expectations.Occasionally, the songs speak in something more than chick-flick cliches. Hillary Scott has said the starkest number, "As You Turn Away," was written about an ex abruptly breaking up with her (presumably not the fellow to whom she's now happily engaged).Even if you haven't read that, you'll recognize the real-life hurt when she informs the guy nonchalantly dumping her that staying friends will not be in the cards.In most of the other songs, though, it's hard to tell if the threesome and their songwriting collaborators are writing out of personal passion or just a passionate need to avoid the junior jinx.On "Dancin' Away With My Heart" -- which you can guess, given the predominance of down-tempo material, will reference a slow dance -- Kelley and Scott remember romantic glories past and muse, "I can still feel you lean in to kiss me/I can't help but wonder if you ever miss me."But "losing all control"? Not gonna happen, this time. Better that they'd waited to wonder such things until it was a quarter after one and they'd had another shot of the previous album's miracle-working whiskey.





Started school after the most-destructive wildfire


Posted:  Mon, 12 Sep 2011 16:07:02 PDT
Latest News - Paying attention in class may never have been so hard for children who started school Monday after the most-destructive wildfire in Texas history left hundreds of their families homeless and many with little more than the clothes on their backs.Fed by howling winds whipped up by the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee, flames streaked across drought-stricken Texas, where more than 190 fires statewide have killed four people. The worst damage was in Bastrop, where two smaller fires joined to form a monster blaze that has destroyed more than 1,550 homes and charred more than 34,000 acres.With firefighters still trying to contain the wildfire and power and water cut off to some areas, many in the Bastrop area remain under evacuation orders. School buses stopped Monday at hotels including the Super8, Best Western and Holiday Inn Express to pick up students. Desk clerks said most of the people in the hotels were people displaced by the fires.The school district provided breakfast and lunch for all students since many families don't have access to kitchens to pack lunches or make meals, spokesman Donald Williams said. Counselors from across Bastrop, with its charming downtown of quaint, colonial-style streets and shops, as well as health professionals from nearby school districts were called in to help school counselors.Seven students at Mina Elementary School and four employees have lost their homes so far, principal Martha Werner said. The number could rise as 1,350 firefighters from Texas and around the country get the fire under control and begin assessing damage to individual properties.Still, only 24 of the school's 435 kindergarten through fourth-grade students failed to show for the first day of classes. The tally includes not only students left homeless or forced to move-in with relatives in other communities, but some who fell ill with smoke inhalation or other fire-related problems.Only 6 percent of students were absent district-wide, spokesman Donald Williams said."Today has really been a smooth day," Werner said. "A lot of smiles from the kids. It looked from afar mostly like a normal day, except for a few more hugs and a little extra loving and attention."She added, "I want our school to be a safe place and a happy place because their home life can be difficult for some right now."Teachers read an announcement about the fire, and students were encouraged to share their stories. Older children wrote in journals about their experiences, while some of the younger ones drew pictures."Some won't speak but they'll draw you a picture and you'll know what's on their mind," Werner said. "Some of them wanted to know, 'Is the fire still out there, is it going to get us?'"The lobby of the Bastrop Independent School District headquarters was piled high with donated backpacks, pencils, notebooks and binders. Supplies had already been distributed to many children in need, and across the city so many residents have donated food, clothing and furniture that many aid centers said they simply didn't have the space to take more.Rocky Hernandez took the day off of work from his job with the city of Austin to make sure his 11-year-old got off to school on time. The fire spared their home, even as it devoured most of a nearby state park, because winds pushed the flames in another direction."Everybody's still hyped up," Hernandez said. "I don't know how they're supposed to be thinking, be learning anything. It doesn't seem like a couple of days is enough."One student who missed school was sixth grader Wesley Graf, 11, whose family has been staying with relatives in the nearby town of Lockhart.His father, 44-year-old James Graf, returned to their home Monday and found it undamaged but they won't be allowed to move back in for several more days. Until then, they hope to get a room at a local hotel, paid for with federal disaster assistance.James grinned when asked if he had missed school."Not really," he said. But his father said his summer vacation was over."He's going back tomorrow and that's something he needs, something that's good for him," James Graf said. "But he also needed to know the house was OK. I didn't want him to have to go to school thinking about it all day."





Recovery will be driven not by Washington


Posted:  Mon, 12 Sep 2011 07:25:43 PDT
Latest News - The economy needs to be fixed. On this, Democrats and Republicans agree. They part ways over how to do it and, specifically, what role the federal government should play."Ultimately," President Barack Obama tells Congress, "our recovery will be driven not by Washington, but by our businesses and our workers. But we can help." His argument that government has a responsibility to do so probably doesn't sit well with an America that's down on Washington.Texas Gov. Rick Perry, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and other Republicans competing for his job take a different tack as they court a tea party-infused GOP electorate: The economy will thrive, they say, if Washington simply gets out of the way. As Perry puts it: "Smaller government, less spending, fewer regulations."At the heart of the 2012 presidential race is an issue as old as the country itself. Is it the federal government's responsibility to address what ails the nation, in this case the economy? And if so, to what degree? What is the right balance?History tells us that, try as we might, we may never answer those questions; we've been debating them ever since the Jeffersonians and the Federalists squabbled over states' rights vs. a strong central government. In the end, the Constitution assigned certain powers to the federal government while reserving others to states.But the tension in America between the purely local and a far-off central government has never gone away. Nor, perhaps, should it in an ever-evolving democracy.These days, Republicans argue for a limited government, claiming that lower taxes and less regulation will encourage job creation. Democrats advocate a more robust government, one that provides more services, pours more money into the economy and, in Obama's case, raises taxes on the nation's highest earners."We've been in this pattern for decades. These are the terms of our politics probably for the next generation, too," said Charles Kesler, who teaches government at Claremont McKenna College and edited "Saving the Revolution: The Federalist Papers and the American Founding."Given the scripts, the question that ultimately determines who wins the presidency might be this: What do Americans want from their government?For many, the answer is difficult to articulate.Larry Parkin, a conservative who hosts a discussion group on the Federalist Papers with the South Pinellas 9.12 Patriots in St. Petersburg, Fla., just started collecting Social Security, which he calls a contract with the government. The 65-year-old Coast Guard retiree expects the country to secure the borders and protect the nation. Beyond that, he says: "I expect them to be less intrusive than they are. I expect them to have a limited role."But he struggles to identify exactly where the line between too much and too little government lies.Ask Ashley Stilos, a liberal in Fayetteville, Ark., the same question and she says one of the government's roles is to take care of its people, adding: "Every individual should have the right to pursue happiness from an equal fighting ground, and that's not the way it is in society."Is it the government's job to make that playing field level? The 27-year-old university loan specialist says: "They have the power to make it more equal, and it's their responsibility to do that."Americans' views of government have shifted in recent years, according to an analysis of Associated Press exit polls.In 1992, more than half of voters thought government was doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals. But by 2008, a majority, for the first time, wanted government to do more to solve the nation's problems.That didn't last long after Obama took office. In quick fashion, he signed into law an economic stimulus plan, oversaw an auto-industry bailout and presided over the second installment of money to keep Wall Street afloat. A health care system overhaul came a year later.By 2010, 56 percent of voters were back to saying that government was overreaching, while just 38 percent said government should be more active. It was the most government wary view among independents that the exit poll has recorded, with 65 percent saying government should do less, while 28 percent said it should do more.Nowadays, people across the political spectrum seem to want very little from Washington.A CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll in June found that 63 percent of people think the government is doing too much, while 33 percent want it to do more. And the sentiments of independents, who typically decide close elections, generally mirrored Americans at large.But all that could change quickly, especially if these tough times persist, with 9.1 percent unemployment, rampant foreclosures and fear of back-to-back recessions.Against this backdrop, Obama is seeking re-election. And a 24-hour span last week showed the vastly different type of leader — and view of government — the nation will get if they choose a Republican over him.No sooner did eight Republicans take the debate stage at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., than did they rail against the federal government requiring states to act a certain way, lambast Washington overreach, and argue that fewer regulations and lower taxes would compel businesses to hire again."They're looking for a president that will say we're going to lower the tax burden on you and we're going to lower the regulation impact on you, and free them to do what they do best: create jobs," said Perry, who has staked his candidacy on a promise to make the federal government as inconsequential as possible to people's lives.He and the others were posturing before a GOP electorate shaped by the tea party, whose existence can be attributed in part to a disgust by citizens over the growth of government — and federal spending — under George W. Bush, a Republican, and Obama, a Democrat."I believe in a lot of what the tea party believes in," Romney said. "The tea party believes that government's too big, taxing too much, and that we ought to get to the work of getting Americans to work."Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann said Washington needs to stay out of education and health issues, claiming: "We have the best results when we have the private sector and when we have the family involved. We have the worst results when the federal government gets involved." And Texas Rep. Ron Paul opposes the federal government from having any role that isn't explicitly laid out in the Constitution.One night later, Obama pressed Congress to immediately pass a $450 billion plan to create jobs and jolt the economy, arguing that government was at least partly responsible for fixing it, helping Americans who are hurting and upgrading the nation's crumbling roads, bridges and schools."This task of making America more competitive for the long haul, that's a job for all of us," he said, adding: "For government and for private companies. For states and for local communities — and for every American citizen."He countered the pitch from conservatives and the tea party that heavily cutting government spending and eliminating a chunk of government regulations is the best solution to the economic woes, saying: "This larger notion that the only thing we can do to restore prosperity is just dismantle government, refund everybody's money, and let everyone write their own rules, and tell everyone they're on their own — that's not who we are. That's not the story of America."And he reached back to history to try to prove his point.Obama argued that its workers and entrepreneurs made America's economy great, the envy of the world. But he also noted that government was responsible for the Transcontinental Railroad, the National Academy of Sciences, the first land grant colleges, the G.I. Bill, the nation's highway and air systems, the public school system, research that led to the Internet and the computer chip.Americans will hear these competing visions of government for the next 14 months before casting a vote that will offer a glimpse into Americans views of the scope of government — a temporary clarity at best as the debate as old as our founding rages on.





Fulham draw with Blackburn


Posted:  Sun, 11 Sep 2011 12:32:00 PDT
Latest News - Blackburn remained rooted to the bottom of the table after Bobby Zamora's equaliser gave Fulham a 1-1 draw at Craven Cottage.Steve Kean's struggling side had taken the lead through a fine strike from Ruben Rochina in the first half, but Zamora equalised soon after to leave Blackburn still waiting for their first league win this season.There was more bad news for Kean as midfielder David Hoilett was stretchered off in stoppage time wearing a neck brace after a nasty collision with Fulham goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer.Fulham are also without a victory in their first four league games and, like Blackburn, they were unable to climb out of the bottom three after a scrappy encounter in west London."He's got three or four stitches in the side of his head and a bang on his eye," Kean said of Hoilett's injury."It's not a great challenge and he'll have some concussion. It's a bad one."He was out for a little bit of time and it might affect him for the next game, but he'll be fine."





Reflect on Sept. 11 anniversary


Posted:  Sun, 11 Sep 2011 12:32:09 PDT
Latest News - For all the journalistic firepower gathered to mark the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on Sunday, the small moments captured by cameras resonated most deeply.A 21-year-old boy regretted that his father wasn't there to help him learn how to drive a car. Young hands grasped at a name etched in a memorial as if they could touch the person himself. A young woman asked a mother no longer there if she is proud of her family.Live coverage of somber ceremonies memorializing the attack's victims dominated television networks on Sunday, the climax of two weeks of attention paid to the historical marker. Newspapers published special sections and websites offered their own content — Yahoo even observing a digital moment of silence.The television coverage was centered on the annual memorial service at New York's World Trade Center. CNN kept a timeline, occasionally flashing mileposts of what happened 10 years ago at their precise moments: as former President George W. Bush read a letter from Abraham Lincoln to the mother of five men killed in the Civil War, the screen noted that exactly 10 years ago Bush's chief of staff was whispering to his boss that "America is under attack.""The images still shock, the heartbreak still hurts," CNN's Anderson Cooper said as the network showed pictures from 2001.Sunday's coverage offered dozens of heart-rending moments, perhaps none more so than when Peter Negron, 21, recalled his father Pete, a project manager for environmental issues for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, who died at the World Trade Center. He noted that he tried to teach his brother, aged 2 when their father died, things like throwing a baseball that dad had showed him. He regretted that his father wasn't there to teach him how to drive, or ask a girl out on a date.Tom Brokaw, who anchored NBC News' coverage 10 years ago and worked as a commentator with Brian Williams on Sunday, briefly struggled for composure after watching a red-eyed Paul Simon sing "The Sounds of Silence.""Music is such a critical part of these kinds of ceremonies," he said. "It evokes memories, speaks to us in a way that our everyday language cannot."Most of the networks covered the beginning of the reading of names of World Trade Center victims by family members, but cut away for other things, including ceremonies where planes hit that day at the Pentagon and Shanksville, Penn.That made for some discordant moments, such as when ABC's George Stephanopoulos asked Robin Roberts to describe what the screen already had shown."Can you just give us a sense of what it is like where the names are being read?" Stephanopoulos asked."I'm trying to keep my voice down," Roberts replied. "Everyone is being very respectful in listening to the names being read."Fox introduced a reporter by injecting an odd sense of competition, saying he had been the first to report that the towers had fallen down — a picture seen live by millions 10 years ago.Perhaps most powerfully, CBS News stuck with the list of names longer than its rivals, each reader ending with an often heartbreaking personal tribute. Still, the network ended its three-hour coverage without even reaching the halfway point through the alphabetical list."It takes a very long time to read 3,000 names," CBS' Scott Pelley said. "It's a reminder of the enormity of what happened."New York affiliates of the broadcast networks, as has been their tradition, stuck with the readings after network coverage went off the air. Fox and CNN ran lists of victims' names on the bottom of their screens throughout the morning.The Associated Press provided live video from the memorial service. It also produced a running moment to moment timeline, contrasting what was happening Sunday to what was happening in those moments 10 years earlier.The New York Times published a 40-page special section, "The Reckoning," on Sunday, with a cover picture of the reflecting pool at ground zero. An interactive package with the same name includes a graphic tally of the cost of 9/11 to the United States, an estimated $3.3 trillion. The Times is also collecting comments about where people were on that day and how they feel now.A web package put together by The Wall Street Journal contained graphics showing how lower Manhattan around ground zero has become a more residential community. Cameras from different vantage points give online visitors views of rebuilding at the World Trade Center.Yahoo halted service on its website for a minute at 8:46 a.m. ET, 10 years after the first plane hit the North Tower, a digital moment of silence. Facebook added ways for users to dedicate profile photos and status updates to 9/11 victims. Google's home site had a black ribbon and the phrase, "Remembering September 11th."YouTube started a specific 9/11 channel, asking viewers to submit videos with their thoughts.Advertisers in special newspaper sections tailored their messages to the occasion. The New York Daily News' 80-page special section contained memorial ads from Macy's, the utility Con Edison, Emblem Health, Key Food, the New York Jets and the Eye Bank of New York. Some tried to do business: The Bradford Exchange offered commemorative plaques, pendants and sculptures for sale.





The Greatest Dot-to-Dot Books


Posted:  Sat, 10 Sep 2011 10:11:03 PDT
Latest News - Forty of Wegmans’ supermarket locations now sell two collections of puzzle books by Monkeying Around.
Rochester, NY (PRWEB) September 10, 2011
Monkeying Around, the publishers of the Greatest Dot-to-Dot Books, was recently accepted by forty Wegmans supermarket locations. Wegmans now carries the Original Dot-to-Dot Books one and two and the Super Challenge Dot-to-Dot Books five and six. In less than two months, half of the 800 ordered books have sold in Wegmans’ stores, and some stores have sold out.
Ron Mansfield from the Southern Tier News Company, the distributor of Wegmans’ books, says, "I ran some sales info about three days ago and about 50 percent have sold.”A few of the Wegmans store locations carrying the books include: Fairport, NY, Webster, NY, Pittsford, NY, and Henrietta, NY. Headquartered in Rochester, New York, Wegmans is a major regional supermarket chain, and one of the largest private companies in the U.S.The Greatest Dot-to-Dot Book in the World is a challenging collection of connect-the-dot surprises that stands apart because of its complexity and variety. In addition to traditional dot-to-dots, there are unique innovations and variations for those who can count into the hundreds and follow simple instructions.The Greatest Dot-to-Dot Super Challenge provides a whole new level of challenge and intrigue. Author and artist David Kalvitis continues his Dot-to-Dot revolution by introducing a variety of brand new puzzle inventions. The patent pending Arrow and Compass puzzles provide unique methods for connecting points to reveal a picture. Other new puzzle designs include Alpha Dots and ABC Sets as well as double page spreads with over 1,300 dots.David Kalvitis, founder of Monkeying Around, says, "I have tried to get my dot-to-dot books into Wegmans many times. They are a very high quality organization. I needed to get some serious sales figures under my belt before they would consider my books. I am very proud to have gotten the opportunity to sell my books through Wegmans."Dot-to-Dot puzzle books are a fresh approach to classic connect the dots and they have many educational benefits for children due to the levels of concentration required. They address specific learning categories including sequencing, instructions, image recognition, coordinates, alphabetical order, and compass directions.





Galaxy to clinch a playoff berth


Posted:  Fri, 09 Sep 2011 23:28:17 PDT
Latest News - The Galaxy made official Friday night what they have known for weeks.Landon Donovan's goal gave Los Angeles a 1-0 victory over the Colorado Rapids and made the Galaxy the first Major League Soccer team to clinch a playoff berth."I think that was a bit of a foregone conclusion," Galaxy defender Todd Dunivant said.Los Angeles moved seven points clear of Seattle in the race for the Supporters' Shield, awarded to the team that finishes with the best regular-season record. Los Angeles captured the prize last season and is eyeing a repeat."It would be nice to win the Supporters' Shield," Galaxy coach Bruce Arena said. "That's the next objective for us."Donovan scored his league high-tying 12th goal in the 36th minute off a feed from Sean Franklin to help the Galaxy (15-3-10) remain unbeaten in 14 home matches.After a handful of strong chances in the first half went for naught, the Galaxy managed to convert one before the break.David Beckham started the goal-scoring sequence near the right sideline, playing a short pass to Chad Barrett, who knocked it to a streaking Franklin. Following a dribble, Franklin beat the Rapids' last line of defense with a pass to Donovan, who was left unguarded and finished with a low strike that goalie Matt Pickens was unable to reach.Donovan matched New York's Thierry Henry for most goals in the league."Landon's finish was critical," Dunivant said. "Nobody is going to save that."The defending champion Rapids (10-8-11) lost their second straight following a six-game unbeaten streak.Colorado had won the previous two games in the series at the Home Depot Center."In a stadium where we have had good fortune in the past, tonight was not to be for us," Colorado coach Gary Smith said.Galaxy goalkeeper Donovan Ricketts started in net for the first time since fracturing his left ulna against San Jose on June 25. Ricketts, who missed eight league matches following surgery, wasn't called into action often.The Rapids' best chance at an equalizer was negated by an offside call in the 57th minute. Ricketts made a diving deflection of Sanna Nyassi's shot, sending the ball loose in the box. Wells Thompson cleaned up the rebound but was a step behind the defense while putting the ball into the net.Former U.S. national team coach Bob Bradley was in attendance watching as a spectator. Bradley, who was fired from his post in July after a nearly five-year stint, has been in discussions with Egypt about its coaching vacancy.





Old Trafford horror for Arsenal


Posted:  Fri, 09 Sep 2011 23:26:18 PDT
Latest News - Arsenal will aim to bounce back from their Old Trafford horror show on Saturday as they make a fresh start to their Premier League campaign against newly promoted Swansea.A miserable month of August which began with the departure of Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri culminated with the club's 8-2 humiliation at Manchester United, the heaviest defeat suffered by the Gunners in 115 years.Since then Arsene Wenger has bolstered his squad with a slew of signings, including South Korea captain Park Chu-Young, Mikel Arteta from Everton and German international Per Mertesacker.Whether the arrival of Park, Arteta and Mertesacker, along with the recruitment of Brazilian defender Andre Santos and Yossi Benayoun, will transform Arsenal's season remains to be seen.But midfielder Aaron Ramsey revealed the Gunners are determined to stop the rot following their traumatic outing in Manchester."We want to put things right after our last result," said Ramsey. "Hopefully we put in a really good performance and get back to winning ways."We have had a good think about things and it will be a fresh start now.""We have brought in some quality players, Arteta and Benayoun are two creative midfielders who are really comfortable on the ball and they will be great additions to the squad."Ramsey however warned his team-mates against complacency, having had first-hand experience of Swansea last season during a loan spell with Cardiff."I saw last season, when I played against Swansea for Cardiff, that they are a good footballing team and like to pass the ball," Ramsey said."It will be a good footballing game but hopefully we come out on top and get all three points."While Arsenal are chasing their first league win of the season, leaders United will attempt to maintain their 100 percent start to the season at Bolton.United goalkeeper David de Gea is likely to be face another testing afternoon as he continues to acclimatise to the physicality of the Premier League.However United manager Sir Alex Ferguson is confident that de Gea, who has already conceded soft goals against Manchester City and West Bromwich Albion this season, has the talent to be a success."David made a couple of mistakes in his first games, which we didn't expect and nor did he," Ferguson said."There is no doubt we have a player of great potential. Our job at this club is to realise that potential and make sure he becomes a top goalkeeper," Ferguson added."He'll do that once he gains experience and adapt to the physical nature of the league."It is a different game here compared to Spain - there are more crosses to deal with and there is more contact. Bit by bit, we will get there with him."United's cross-town rivals Manchester City meanwhile are expected to hand a home debut to new signing Nasri -- exceptional in the club's 5-1 away win at Tottenham -- as they face Wigan at Eastlands.Wigan manager Roberto Martinez admits City, who like United have maximum points after three games, have the look of potential champions."You are always looking at what you are doing rather than the opposition but you look at Manchester City, and you feel it's only a matter of time before they are competing to win the Premier League," Martinez said."You just hope that we are playing them at a time when we can disrupt them and not allow them to be themselves."They have assembled probably the best squad of 20 footballers anywhere in the world, and that's obviously a fantastic position to be in."It's only a matter of time before they click, and they are going to be challenging for the title very soon - there`s no two ways about that."Chelsea meanwhile will welcome back goalkeeper Petr Cech and defender David Luiz from injury for their trip to Sunderland.Stoke will attempt to extend their unbeaten Premier League record against Liverpool at the Britannia, where new Potters signing Peter Crouch is expected to line up against his former club.





Expert excluded from EU-China


Posted:  Wed, 07 Sep 2011 23:07:26 PDT
Latest News - Expert excluded from EU-China, The European Union says it deeply regrets China's exclusion of a human rights expert from a forum held in Beijing this week.
The EU office in Beijing said in a statement Thursday that it communicated its disappointment to the Chinese side, but it did not name the individual involved.
New York-based Human Rights in China said one of its experts who had been invited to represent the International Federation of Human Rights had been refused a visa to attend at the last minute.
It said it was told the Chinese Foreign Ministry regarded HRIC as an "anti-China" group whose participation in the seminar was "totally unacceptable."
China has sought to deflect criticisms of its human rights record by holding such closed-door forums.





Why would anyone want to be Yahoo's CEO?


Posted:  Wed, 07 Sep 2011 23:05:25 PDT
Latest News - Why would anyone want to be Yahoo's CEO?, There are few surer ways for an executive to lose a good reputation than to be CEO of Yahoo Inc. Just ask Carol Bartz or Terry Semel.
As the company searches for Bartz's replacement, its biggest obstacle is likely the track record of past CEOs after they moved under Yahoo's figurative purple umbrella.
"They are going to have a lot of trouble filling that job," said a tech industry consultant who asked to remain anonymous because of a relationship with Yahoo. "Anybody great is not likely to go there."
A second source close to Yahoo added: "It's a very risky move for an executive to moor their reputation to Yahoo. No one has been able to turn it around."
Bartz came to Yahoo in 2009 as the tough-talking, bottom-line oriented CEO who led software developer Autodesk to prodigious revenue and share price growth. When she left Yahoo Tuesday, she was viewed as an executive incapable of innovation and lacking vision, an executive who failed to move Yahoo's stock price or operating performance in any meaningful way.
She is also widely seen as having made a bad deal to hand Yahoo's search engine operations to Microsoft."Bartz's demise underscores that fallen angels in the Internet space are really hard to turn around," Needham & Co. analyst Laura Martin wrote in a report Wednesday. "Her lack of success raises the risk that perhaps it simply can't be done by anyone (unless you're Steve Jobs)."
Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang served as the company's CEO immediately before Bartz. But the beloved co-founder lasted just over a year in the role, changing in investor eyes from the heart and soul of the company to a fool who turned down a roughly $45 billion takeover offer from Microsoft for reasons that some say had more to do with ego than economics.
Then there's Terry Semel. Prior to his six-year tenure at Yahoo, Semel spent 24 years running Warner Bros, transforming the studio into a brand name by expanding internationally, diversifying into television, and rolling up record labels. By the time Semel was done, he had grown Warner Bros into a multibillion-dollar company.That's all a distant memory now. Semel is now known more for earning roughly $500 million during a six-year stint at Yahoo in which he failed miserably trying to move the company into content and -- as a result of that change in focus -- was deemed to have caused Yahoo to fall behind in technological and product innovation.
INTERNAL CONFUSION COMPLICATES CEO JOB
Part of the reason Yahoo's CEOs face such difficulty is because, sources say, they are just one prong of a leadership trifecta, with the board and Yang also having significant input into the decision-making process. Those influential camps are often not on the same page.
For example, the decision to fire Bartz without naming a successor, along with the plan to initiate a "strategic review," suggested that the company was laying the groundwork for a sale or merger. But Yang told executives during a meeting on Wednesday morning that the company was not for sale, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Some industry insiders and investors believe Yahoo is sending out mixed messages about whether it hopes to initiate another effort at reviving the company's fortunes or simply wants to sell its various assets to different bidders because of differences within the three factions.
"Don't discount the possibility that inside Yahoo and Yahoo's board, there's real dissent," said Adam Seessel, Director of Research at Martin Capital Management and portfolio manager of the Riverpark/Gravity Long-Biased Fund. "Jerry Yang has wiffled and waffled, he's the guy who didn't want to sell Yahoo to Microsoft at $33 a share. So who knows where his head's at?"
"Part of the reason why they're sending confusing signals is that I wouldn't be surprised if they were confused."
GLORY FOR THE CEO THAT CAN TURN AROUND YAHOO
But countering any reputational harm to the next potential CEO are several factors, including the glory that comes with restoring a tarnished brand and a large paycheck.
Yahoo owns some of the Web's most visited real estate, but the company has seen its popularity and revenue decline amid competition from Google and Facebook. Much of its $16 billion valuation is ascribed to its roughly 40 percent stake in China's Alibaba, the parent company of websites including Alibaba.com and Taobao. Yahoo also owns a stake in Yahoo Japan, along with Japanese mobile company Softbank
"I don't think running Yahoo is a no-win situation," Mark Cuban, tech entrepreneur and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, wrote in an email.
"It's a difficult situation. Yahoo had a cash cow product (display advertising) that was preempted by competitive advances. The challenge they face is finding a transformational product that can knock off an industry standard."
Plus, he added, taking the helm of Yahoo would bring "huge money."
Trying to unlock the upside potential in Yahoo may be too tempting for some to pass up -- despite the risk of dimming any glory an incoming CEO had previously achieved.
"It's a great challenge for any CEO, therefore sort of irresistible to a certain type of person," said a third source close to both Yahoo and AOL.





Police: Walmart worker burglarized for sex change


Posted:  Wed, 07 Sep 2011 11:56:48 PDT
Latest News - Walmart worker burglarized for sex change, Police in Arizona say two Walmart employees burglarized the store where they worked to pay for a car and a sex change operation.
Prescott police spokesman Lt. Andy Reinhardt told The Daily Courier that detectives determined that a key was used to enter a locked cash office where $45,000 was taken last week.
Police arrested 23-year-old Spencer Danger Cullen and 19-year-old Adriano Valdes Altiveros III on Friday.
Reinhardt says Altiveros reportedly told detectives he stole cash to buy a car. He says Cullen told police she stole the money to go forward with a sex change operation.
Cullen and Altiveros remain in custody. The Yavapai County public defender's office would not say Wednesday whether the pair had been appointed attorneys.
Prescott is about 80 miles north of Phoenix.





Rwanda opposition leader in court on terror charge


Posted:  Wed, 07 Sep 2011 11:54:38 PDT
Latest News - Rwanda opposition leader in court on terror charge, A top Rwandan opposition leader appeared in court Wednesday with four others to face terrorism charges.
Prosecutor Bonaventure Ruberwa told the court that Victoire Umuhoza Ingabire was in "constant contact" with rebels in the Congo in an effort to destabilize Rwanda. The court also mentioned that Paul Rusesabagina was Ingabire's accomplice, although he has not been formally charged and was not in court Wednesday, as he lives in the U.S.
Rusesabagina gained international fame after he was portrayed by Don Cheadle helping hide families from genocidal killers in the film Hotel Rwanda. Rwandan officials have requested U.S. help in gathering evidence against him.
"We have statements from the accused and papers showing the working relationships between them and the two politicians aimed at terrorizing the country," said Ruberwa.
All four of Ingabire's co-accused plead guilty. Ingabire did not yet get a chance to enter plea or present her defense.
Ingabire returned to Rwanda in January after 16 years to challenge President Paul Kagame by leading the opposition political party FDU-Inkingi. Kagame was re-elected in an August vote, and Ingabire was barred from contesting the poll. She is accused of propagating ethnic hatred, forming a terrorist organization and "genocide revisionism." Her lawyers say the charges are politically motivated.
Human rights groups accuse the Rwandan government of using allegations of terrorism to stifle opposition.





43 dead, Russian jet carrying hockey team crashes


Posted:  Wed, 07 Sep 2011 08:12:00 PDT
Latest News - 43 dead, Russian jet carrying hockey team crashes, A Russian jet carrying a top ice hockey team crashed while taking off Wednesday in western Russia, killing at least 43 people and leaving two critically injured, officials said.
The Russian Emergency Situations Ministry said the Yak-42 plane crashed immediately after leaving an airport near the city of Yaroslavl, on the Volga River about 150 miles (240 kilometers) northeast of Moscow. It was carrying 45 people, including 37 passengers and eight crew, and the ministry said all but two people were killed in the crash.
The weather was sunny and clear at the time.
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin immediately sent the nation's transport minister to the site, 10 miles (15 kilometers) east of Yaroslavl.
The ministry said the plane was carrying the Lokomotiv ice hockey team from Yaroslavl to Minsk, the capital of Belarus, where it was to play Thursday against Dinamo Minsk in the opening game of the season in the Kontinental Hockey League.
The KHL is an international club league that pits together teams from Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Latvia and Slovakia.
Lokomotiv Yaroslavl is a leading force in Russian hockey and came third in the KHL last year. It's coached by Canadian Brad McCrimmon and includes several international stars in its ranks, such as Stefan Liv of Sweden and Czech Republic players Josef Vaicek and Jan Marek. Lokomotiv was a three-time Russian League champion in 1997, 2002 and 2003 and took the bronze last season.It wasn't immediately clear which players were on board the Yak-42 on Wednesday.
"We will do our best to ensure that hockey in Yaroslavl does not die, and that it continues to live for the people that were on that plane," said Russian Ice Hockey Federation President Vladislav Tretyak.
The short- and medium-range Yak-42 has been in service since 1980 and dozens are still in service with Russian and other airlines.
President Dmitry Medvedev has announced plans to take aging Soviet-built planes out of service starting next year.
In June, another Russian passenger jet crashed in the northwestern city of Petrozavodsk, killing 47 people. The crash of that Tu-134 plane has been blamed on pilot error.





Obama down ahead of economic speech


Posted:  Tue, 06 Sep 2011 07:38:01 PDT
Latest News - Obama down ahead of economic speech, President Barack Obama's job approval ratings plunged to a new low ahead of his major economic speech on Thursday, with widespread discontent among Americans over his handling of the economy and jobs, according to a spate of polls released on Tuesday.
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of 1,000 U.S. adults showed Obama's overall job approval rating at a low of 44 percent, down 3 percentage points since July, while his handling of the economy stands at 37 percent.
A Democratic pollster who helped conduct the survey said the poor results, which contain a 3.1 percentage-point margin of error, suggest Obama is no longer favored to win re-election in 2012.
An ABC News/Washington Post poll of U.S. adults showed that six in 10 Americans rate the president's job on the economy and jobs negatively, while one in three say they are now worse off financially since Obama entered the White House. It has a 3.5 percentage point margin of error.
A third poll of 1,000 likely voters by Washington-based Politico and George Washington University found that 72 percent of voters believe the country is either strongly or somewhat headed in the wrong direction, a jump of 12 percent since last May. That survey's results have a 3.1 percentage point error margin.
The polling, conducted last week, offers grim news for the president after a summer spent wrangling with Republicans in Congress over the debt ceiling and the budget in a rancorous debate that ended with Standard and Poor's unprecedented downgrade of the U.S. triple-A credit rating.
The polls also come three days ahead of his widely anticipated presidential speech to Congress, in which Obama is expected to confront Republican resistance to his agenda for creating jobs and spurring economic growth.
The package is expected to include projects for rebuilding roads, bridges and other infrastructure across the country, an approach Republicans who control the House of Representatives reject as wasteful spending.
New job figures, showing zero U.S. employment growth in August and a national jobless rate stuck at 9.1 percent, have stoked fears the U.S. economy could slide back into recession.
Obama's ability to reignite the economy could determine whether he keeps his own job in the White House after 2012.
The NBC/Wall Street Journal poll showed the president leading Republican front-runner Rick Perry, the Texas governor, by 47 percent to 42 percent and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney by 46 percent to 45 percent.
But for the first time in that poll, Obama lost out to a generic Republican candidate by 44 percent to 40 percent, which could suggest a serious campaign obstacle given the bleak economic picture.
"Obama is no longer the favorite to win re-election," said Democratic pollster Peter Hart, who conducted the NBC/Wall Street Journal survey with Republican pollster Bill McInturff.





Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas


Posted:  Tue, 06 Sep 2011 07:35:46 PDT
Latest News - Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas, Calmer winds Tuesday should help firefighters battling a wildfire that has destroyed nearly 500 homes in Central Texas and forced thousands of residents to evacuate to shelters to avoid the blaze, officials said.
Texas Forest Service spokeswoman Victoria Koenig said it is too early to say how much progress was made fighting the wildfire in Bastrop County overnight, but that there were no winds early Tuesday. The fire enveloped at least 25,000 acres Monday.
"It's encouraging we don't have winds right now, not like yesterday," Koenig said early Tuesday morning.
Even with the encouraging conditions, Koenig said it was a "tough, tough fire" that was raging through rugged terrain, including a ridge of hills.
"You can still see the hills glowing quite a bit," she said.
At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said Monday. School and school-related activities were canceled Tuesday.
Gov. Rick Perry told NBC's "Today" show that more than 50 fires were burning across the state.
"We're a long way from having these under control," Perry said.
Perry urged residents to follow evacuation orders and not put their lives in danger for the sake of their possessions. He returned to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president.
Fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee, the blaze rapidly grew Monday, racing through rain-starved farm and ranchland.
Winds in the area gusted up to 30 mph on Monday, but dropped overnight to around 5 mph and were only expected to get up to 10 mph by afternoon, said National Weather Service forecaster Orlando Bermudez.
In Bastrop, a town of about 6,000 people along the Colorado River, huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over downtown Monday. When winds picked up, flames flared over the tops of trees. 
Helicopters and planes loaded with water flew overhead, and firefighters along a state highway outside the city converged around homes catching fire.
"Waiting is the most frustrating thing," said Gina Thurman, 47, choking back tears as she sat by herself in the shade on a curb outside Ascension Catholic Church, one of several shelters in the area. "You're sitting there and you don't know anything but your house is probably burning."
Rick Blakely was among about 30 people sleeping on cots at the church. The 54-year-old said he was in a state of shock and "not expecting anything to be standing" when he returned to his home.
"I just don't know what I'm going to do," he said.
Strong winds coupled with drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. Dry conditions were expected to persist at least through the week, according to the National Weather Service.
The fire was far enough away from Austin that the city was not threatened, but it consumed land along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said.
The wildfire destroyed at least 476 homes, and about 250 firefighters were working around the clock using bulldozers and water trucks against the fire, Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said.
There were no immediate reports of injuries, and officials said they knew of no residents trapped in their homes.
But the blaze was "nowhere near controlled" on Monday and a separate, smaller blaze south of the city was growing larger, said Mike Fischer, the county's emergency management director. It's unclear how the fire began.
Crews have responded to nearly 21,000 wildfires in Texas since the traditional fire season began early in the year. Outdoor burning, including campfires, is prohibited in all but three of the state's 254 counties.
The governor's office said at least 40 Texas Forest Service aircraft were involved in the firefighting Monday along with a half-dozen Texas military aircraft.
Since December, wildfires in Texas have claimed 3.5 million acres — an area the size of Connecticut — and destroyed more than 1,000 homes, Perry said. The governor said it was too early to say whether he would attend Wednesday's GOP debate in California.
"I'm not paying attention to politics right now," he said. "There will be plenty of time for that. People's lives and their possessions are at stake, and that's substantially more important."
Authorities mobilized ground and air forces to fight the largest of at least 63 fires that broke out in Texas since Sunday as strong winds from what was then Tropical Storm Lee swept into Texas, which has endured its worst drought since the 1950s.
On Sunday, about 200 miles to the northeast in Gladewater, a 20-year-old woman and her 18-month-old daughter died when a fast-moving wildfire gutted their mobile home. That fire was out Monday, although several other major blazes continued to burn in at least four other counties in central and northern Texas.
To the west of Austin in Travis County, at least 20 homes were lost and 30 others were damaged in another fire. More than 1,000 homes were under mandatory evacuation and 25 lost in a third fire also in the Austin area.
Firefighters were also battling wildfires across parched California, including a brush fire sparked by a small plane crash south of Bakersfield. Wildfires have burned at least 500 acres and three homes in northwestern Louisiana.
In Texas, at least two-thirds of the 6,000-acre Bastrop State Park have burned. The park is home to endangered Houston toads and several historic rock and stone buildings built in the 1930s and 1940s that officials are trying to protect, said Mike Cox of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.From the park's front gate, Cox said: "All I see is a wall of smoke."





Impasse continues at India's largest carmaker


Posted:  Sat, 03 Sep 2011 09:52:50 PDT
Latest News - Impasse continues at India's largest carmaker, India's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki on Saturday said it rolled out just 150 cars from its plant in the north of the country -- fraction of the usual number -- as many workers remained locked out.
Production of cars was halted last Monday after the Japanese-controlled firm accused some workers of sabotaging production and "deliberately causing quality problems" at the factory in Manesar in the northern state of Haryana.
The company normally rolls out 1,200 vehicles every day.
New contract workers have had to be brought in after Maruti demanded that existing employees sign a "good conduct" pledge before being allowed back in to the Manesar plant.
"The company brought in another batch of 125... trained and experienced people today (Saturday)," Maruti said in a statement, adding that the current strength of workers now available for production was 800.
The carmaker, which employs nearly 2,000 people at the Manesar plant, started rolling out cars again Wednesday after locking workers out in the dispute over alleged sabotage.
The Press Trust of India estimated that the production loss suffered by Maruti at 5,625 units.
The company has suspended at least 26 workers and sacked another 17 on charges of hampering output at the plant.
The "good conduct" bond is an assurance from the workers that they will not sabotage production, resort to go-slow tactics or otherwise hamper output, the company said.
Representatives of the workers say the number of people who have signed the pledge is small.
The labour dispute has been the third to affect production at Maruti in as many months.
Workers' representatives were not immediately available for comment when contacted by AFP but they have earlier denied the accusations of sabotage.
The company, which sells nearly half of all new cars in India, produces the Swift and A-Star hatchbacks, and the SX4 sedan at the Manesar plant.
The company says problems were discovered during quality-control checks and included doors falling off and dents in car bodies.
Tensions have been high for months at the plant with the company refusing to recognise a union formed by the workers.





What Is This Pink Patch?


Posted:  Sat, 03 Sep 2011 05:12:13 PDT
Latest News - What Is This Pink Patch?, This pink patch could be anything, right? An infected mosquito bite, a pimple you tried to obliterate, or a skin cancer. 
In fact, it's a basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common skin cancer. BCCs are really sneaky because they have many disguises. They can be a pink growth like this; a flat, white, scarlike spot; or a reddish patch you'd swear was eczema. That's why if you notice a suspicious spot, you have to see a dermatologist, an MD who specializes in skin diseases.





Consumer Confidence at Its Worst Since 2009


Posted:  Tue, 30 Aug 2011 08:41:19 PDT
Latest News - Consumer Confidence at Its Worst Since 2009, American shoppers spent more in July than they did in June, but in August, they still didn't feel very confident about the economy and their role as one of its main drivers. In fact, consumer confidence is at its lowest level since April 2009, according to a report out Tuesday from the Conference Board. More participants in the board's survey said business conditions were "bad" than did in July, while those saying jobs were "hard to get" also increased to 49.1 percent from 44.8 percent, the board reported.
"A contributing factor may have been the debt ceiling discussions since the decline in confidence was well underway before the S&P downgrade," Lynn Franco, director of The Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement. "Consumers' assessment of current conditions, on the other hand, posted only a modest decline as employment conditions continue to suppress confidence." Predictably, the gloomy report dragged down U.S. stock markets, which opened down across the board on Tuesday, with the Dow losing more than 100 points before rebounding after two hours of trading.





Deficit panel names Mark Prater staff director


Posted:  Tue, 30 Aug 2011 08:38:30 PDT
Latest News - Deficit panel names Mark Prater staff director, Mark Prater, a high-level Republican aide on the Senate Finance Committee, has been named staff director of the new congressional committee that will look for at least $1.2 trillion in government savings over the next decade, it was announced on Monday.
Prater, who has served on the Finance panel staff for more than 20 years, has worked on tax, healthcare and employment issues that members of the special committee will focus on in looking for ways to further reduce the deficit.
"Mark has a well-earned reputation for being a workhorse who members of both parties have relied on," said Democratic Senator Patty Murray and Republican Representative Jeb Hensarling, the co-chairs of the special committee.





Northeast floods after Irene's torrential rains


Posted:  Mon, 29 Aug 2011 11:55:39 PDT

Play Now

Latest News - Northeast floods after Irene's torrential rains, Heavy rain from Irene caused rivers to swell and flooded parts of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Deborah Gembara reports.








NYSE stocks posting largest percentage decreases


Posted:  Mon, 29 Aug 2011 11:34:33 PDT
Latest News - NYSE stocks posting largest percentage decreases, A look at the 10 biggest percentage decliners on New York Stock Exchange at 1 p.m.:AuRico Gold Inc. fell 15.9 percent to $11.70.
Vanguard Health Systems Inc. fell 3.0 percent to $14.06.
Jaguar Mining Inc. fell 2.3 percent to $6.30.
Sprott Physical Gold Trust fell 2.0 percent to $15.54.
Yamana Gold Inc. fell 1.7 percent to $15.72.
Pike Electric Corp. fell 1.6 percent to $8.72.
Saratoga Investment Corp. fell 1.6 percent to $17.05.
Lone Pine Resources Inc. fell 1.6 percent to $8.87.
Barrick Gold Corp. fell 1.5 percent to $50.15.
Sprott Physical Silver Trust fell 1.5 percent to $19.00.






Make Kids' Lunch Interesting


Posted:  Sun, 28 Aug 2011 14:14:45 PDT
Latest News - Make Kids' Lunch Interesting, Kids may turn thumbs down at many healthy lunch choices, but if parents get creative, they can prepare healthy lunches that their children like.

The American Dietetic Association offers these suggestions for healthy lunches that kids will enjoy:

Create a colorful wrap, instead of a sandwich on ordinary white bread.
Stack sandwich fillers on little crackers, instead of bread.
Pack a veggie- and protein-filled salad topped with nuts, cheese or beans.
Wrap lunch meat around a cheese stick for a bread-free wrap.
Make sandwiches in fun shapes using a favorite cookie cutter.






Moms' smoking linked to psychiatric meds in kids


Posted:  Sun, 28 Aug 2011 14:30:04 PDT
Latest News - Moms' smoking linked to psychiatric meds in kids, Kids whose moms smoked while pregnant were more likely to end up on medications such as antidepressants, stimulants and drugs for addiction in a new study from Finland that hints at maternal smoking's effect on a baby's developing brain.
While the findings don't prove that cigarette smoking during pregnancy causes changes in kids' brains or behavior, they offer one more piece of evidence that should encourage women not to light up while pregnant, the researchers wrote in the American Journal of Epidemiology.
The new study is "entirely consistent with a large and still-growing research literature on the effects of prenatal and secondhand smoke exposure on the mental health of children," said Dr. Michael Weitzman, who studies that topic at New York University Medical Center and was not involved in the new study.
"I found it very interesting and very important," Weitzman said.
The research, he added, is the first he knows of that looks specifically at use of psychiatric medications in kids whose moms had smoked.
That's important, the authors noted, because tracking medication prescriptions may pick up on more mild conditions than studies that only include kids who are hospitalized for mental illness, for example.
Mikael Ekblad of Turku University Hospital and colleagues used Finnish data for 175,000 kids born in the country between 1987 and 1989.
At that time, midwives had asked all new mothers if they smoked during pregnancy.
The researchers then matched those birth records to a nationwide database of prescription drugs covered by insurance between 1994 and 2007 -- when the kids were between five and 20 years old.
One in 11 kids was prescribed a psychiatric medication at some point during that period, including anti-anxiety drugs, antipsychotics, antidepressants, stimulants and drugs for addiction.
Of kids and teens whose moms didn't smoke during pregnancy, 8 percent were on at least one of those drugs during the study period.
That compared to 11 percent of those whose moms smoked less than 10 cigarettes a day, and close to 14 percent whose moms had lit up more than 10 times per day.
The link remained when researchers left out babies who were born early or very small -- other factors that could affect future mental health.
It also stuck when they looked at each class of drugs on its own, and was strongest for stimulant drugs that target attention problems and hyperactivity and drugs for addiction.
Weitzman said the finding that depression medications were also linked to smoking was a "new and intriguing" one that would have to be examined in future research.
The study did have its limitations. For example, Ekblad and colleagues couldn't take into account whether moms had been on psychotropic medications themselves, or if they used alcohol or illicit drugs during pregnancy.
They also didn't know which dads smoked while kids were in the womb -- or if either moms or dads smoked after the babies were born, when their brains would have been still developing.
Weitzman said that it's "so hard to disentangle" the effects of parents' smoking during pregnancy from smoking when kids are growing up.
After all, he said, kids who are exposed to one kind of secondhand smoke are often exposed to both.
"Very few women smoke just during pregnancy," he told Reuters Health.
Exactly how smoking could change a growing baby or child's brain is unclear.
The researchers said it's possible that nicotine could affect brain development, or that access to oxygen during pregnancy might be reduced when moms smoke.
Either way, "At the very least, parents need to be educated that they might be doing brain damage to their children" if they smoke during key times in development, Weitzman said.
He added that doctors should keep this in mind and look out for mental health problems in their young patients.





Walk-to-School Programs Put Kids' Fitness First


Posted:  Sun, 28 Aug 2011 14:29:41 PDT
Latest News - Walk-to-School Programs Put Kids' Fitness First, Saying "no" to the school bus and walking kids to school instead could be a step -- or more -- toward boosting children's activity levels, a new study shows.
Texas researchers split a group of 149 fourth-graders from eight schools in Houston into active commuters -- those who walked to and from school up to five days a week -- and a control group who were driven by bus or car. At the beginning of the study, both groups had logged similar amounts of moderate to vigorous activity, about 46 to 49 minutes per day.
But over the next five weeks, the kids who walked to school upped their activity slightly -- an average of 7 extra minutes per day of moderate to vigorous exercise. In contrast, those who got driven to school actually lowered their daily activity over the study period, to an average of 41 minutes daily.
While the activity increase for walkers may seem modest, study author Dr. Jason Mendoza said that even small amounts of exercise are meaningful in a country with a 17 percent obesity rate for kids under age 19. About a third of adult Americans are obese, and another third are classified as overweight.
"It's not like they're going to the gym to work out," said Mendoza, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. "It's something they can build into their days without a lot of extra effort or equipment."
The study is published in the September issue of the journal Pediatrics.
Because of a "car-centric" society that favors wider roads and fewer sidewalks -- as well as a heightened fear of abductions by strangers -- far fewer kids walk to school than was the case four decades ago. According to study authors, 42 percent of children actively commuted (walked or biked) to school in 1969-70, compared to only 13 percent in 2009.
Because of the brevity of the study period, Mendoza's team did not compare differences in the children's body mass indexes (BMIs) over that time, so it's impossible to say that the intervention caused the kids to lose (or at least not gain) excess weight. But all participants came from low-income districts with high numbers of ethnic minorities, groups that tend to have higher levels of childhood obesity.
Study staff members took the helm of "walking school bus" groups of up to a dozen kids or more, Mendoza said, some of whom were also accompanied by parents who wanted to participate in the effort.
Programs like this are supported by the Safe Routes to School National Partnership, a national organization that advocates for safe walking and bicycling to and from schools.
However, walking school bus programs are still not exceptionally common, said Dr. Silva Arslanian, chief of the weight management and wellness center at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh.
"The results aren't surprising," she said. "The real question is what happens once you stop the activity. The important thing is to sustain a behavior, and that's always been the difficulty in obesity prevention or treatments programs."
Arslanian wasn't impressed by the fact that only 26 percent of the families who were approached for the walking school bus study decided to participate.
"A 75 percent refusal for any study is extremely high. So, are people averse to the idea of walking?" she said. "Parents are not interested because they themselves are heavy, or have other burdens. It all boils down to role modeling and expectations in your child."
Of course, walking to school versus being driven does require a bit more time -- the study showed a 38 percent jump in relative commuting time between the two groups. But Mendoza believes that parents can make "walking school bus" programs feasible by approaching them as a community endeavor.
"Usually walking school buses split up days, like carpools, so it should save parents time if they get other parents to help," he explained. "There are parents who've decided to leave the car at home and take turns walking the kids to school. It might take a little longer to do it, but they build it into their day. It's good for them and good for the kids."
Another advantage of the program is decreased traffic congestion around schools, where carpool lines can pose dangerous circumstances for kids getting into or out of cars, Mendoza noted.
"I'm hoping policy makers and public health officials consider supporting these programs," he said. "It's a broad-based way to get our children to be more physically active. We could say it's an old-fashioned idea, but what's old is new again. We're adapting it to the reality of today."





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


