MyLifeOutdoors - powered by FeedBurner
&



MyLifeOutdoors

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get MyLifeOutdoors delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



What Are The Top Outdoor Blogs? Your Opinions Please


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 19:21:00 +0000
I follow a lot of outdoor blogs...so many in fact that I can't really follow them all. It seems I always end up missing something of real quality because my newsfeed is choked with stuff I don't always care to read. So the other day I went about trying to narrow down a list of Must Read Outdoor Blogs? But to be honest its hard to narrow it down. So I thought I would ask you all:

What are your Must Read Outdoor Blogs? The blogs that you never want to miss a post because its always something of great interest and quality? I'm not interested in who has the most followers or the best industry connections. I'm interested in what you enjoy reading the most. Please take the time to submit the URL of your must read outdoor blogs in the comments below.

Then tell me what makes a great outdoor blog:

What makes a great outdoor blog? 

Want another option: Tell me what makes a great outdoor blog in the comments below.


What kind of content do you like to see on outdoor blogs?

Like different content: Tell me what you like in the comments below.


What is your prefered way to follow a blog?


I'm hoping to get a lot of responses on this...and if I do I would like to come back maybe next week and rank the blogs submitted below. In the end I will create my own must read list from the blogs submited here and add it to twitter. 

To ensure we get a good sampling of opinions be sure to ask your friends and networks to come and chime in with their opinions as well. Thank You in advance...I'm anxious to see what we come up with. 


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Week in Review - September 11, 2001


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 19:45:00 +0000
Here are some posts that grabbed my attention this week:

Susan has some amazing pictures from her Girls Camping Weekend in Alaska



Susan's view along Richardson Hwy in Alaska

Sonja continues to show us stunning views from Brazil.

Izzy shows off his Survival Carabiner kit.

GetOutdoors educates on the benefits of vertical baffles.

Brad Parker has a great piece on Texas Drought and educating youth on conservation

ZSandman reviews some Vibram FiveFingers...I'm still not convinced.

I did a report on our 3rd day in the Glacier National Park Backcountry. 

Win a trip to Jackson Hole WY by clicking the link in this tweet.

Casey is concerned about people trashing our National Forests...as am I

Karl does a review on an OR zip tee.

I was impressed by Dan's paddle down the Middle Kings (Recommended Read)

SkiDiva has been blogging for 5 years...thats a long time in the blogosphere

Brian stuggles with altitude sickness on Mt. Whitney.

Hendrik educates us on Backpack design

Granola Girl took her family 48 miles around the Timberline Trail



Granola Girl's view on the Timberline Trail
Hope you enjoy them as much as I did!

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Texas Fires Devastating The State - Bastrop State Park Damaged by Fire - Extreme Drought


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 14:30:00 +0000
Another round of Texas wildfires have sparked up over the last couple of weeks. It seems the continued drought and high winds have caused some devastating results. According to the Texas Forest Service Firefightters have responded to over 305 different wildfires in the last seven days. Among those fires nearly 700 homes have been destroyed in past 48 hours. (Update @10:30 am 9/8/11: Bastrop Fire has destroyed 1,400 homes) All but Three of the 254 Texas Counties are under burn bans due to extreme fire conditions.



Possum Kingdom Lake - Photo Credit: Texas Forest Service
According to the Texas State Governor's office, local and state firefighters have responded to more than 20,900 fires since the beginning of wildfire season. Those fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes and burned more than 3.6 million acres.



Cathedral Rock Fire - Photo Credit: Texas Forest Service
Now I understand that Bastrop State Park, 30 miles southeast of Austin, has been hit by fire. Most of the park has burned...only 100 of the 6,000 acres in park remain untouched. Bastrop State Park is  home to an isolated forest of Lobolly pines, often called the Lost Pines. It is unsure at this time weather or not the forest will survive the damage.



Fire Raging in Bastrop State Park - Photo Credit: Alan Fisher, © Texas Parks and Wildlife Department





Downtown Austin with Bastrop Fire in the background - Photo Credit: Unkown
Nearby Buescher State Park is closed but remains unharmed as of this date. Other Texas State Parks in the area including Palmetto State Park and Monument Hill State Historic Site remain open at this time.

Texas Governor Rick Perry put out this statement:
The wildfire situation in Texas is severe and all necessary state resources are being made available to protect lives and property. I urge Texans to take extreme caution as we continue to see the devastating effects of sweeping wildfires impacting both rural and urban areas of the state. Our thoughts and prayers are with the first responders who are working around the clock to keep Texans out of harm's way, and with the families across our state who are threatened by these wildfires."

Air drop on the Cathedral Rock Fire - Photo Credit: Texas Forest Service
I have lived in Texas my entire life...I have never seen, nor heard of fires being this bad. We are in desperate need of rain. Our lakes and reservoirs are at critical lows. To the point that it is effecting municipal water supply. Texas is a large state and we need even larger rains to quench the earth and refill our lakes. Please pray for rain in Texas.



The mighty Brazos River - Dry under extreme drought - Photo Credit: Earl Nottingham


Lake Travis, Dry due to extreme drought. Photo Credit: © 2011 CHASE A. FOUNTAIN




Texas Burn Ban Map
Related Resources:
Gov. Perry: All Necessary State Resources Made Available to Protect Lives, Property
www.inciweb.org/
State park, historical buildings hit hard by Bastrop fire

Related Posts:
Wildfire Hiking Safety - What to do if Caught Outdoors in a Wildfire


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Sale on Nemo Tents at the Clymb


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 18:55:00 +0000
The Clymb is currently having a sale on Nemo Tents. I saw a Nemo tent in person for the first time recently in Glacier. I must admit I am impressed with the quality. Wish I had the extra money to spend on one at the Clymb today. Looks like these tents are selling for up to 60% off with a little less then two days left on the sale. If your interested you should go check it out for yourself.



I wrote a review on the Clymb after purchasing a couple of products and returning one. Click here if you want to see what I discovered.

Also if you are not a Clymb Member yet do me a favor and sign up through this link. If you do I get $10 credit the first time you buy something.

http://theclymb.com/invite-from/StevenSmith2

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Brown Pass and Hole in the Wall - Glacier National Park


Posted: Tue, 06 Sep 2011 14:53:00 +0000
This is day three of our five day backpack through Glacier National Park. Click here to read day two, Or here to read day one.

We have lost the trail, it has started to rain, and the mosquitos are the worst I have ever seen. My wife and I whip out our rain gear, but not for protection from the rain....to deter the relentless mosquitos. We are standing out in the wide open, hoping the rain will drive them away. But It doesn't. I give my head net to my wife and search franticly for the other one. But with my hands busy digging in my pack I have nothing to defend my head. I can literally see the mosquitos biting my face. And without the second head net...my only escape is to hike faster then they can fly. But thats the other problem...we don’t know where the trail is.



Bowman Creek
When we left Lake Francis that morning I had no idea the kind of day we were in for. I had expected to view spectacular scenery...and Glacier National Park did not disappoint. But that scenery would come at a price. Our third day in the Backcountry would be our hardest day yet. The most elevation change and the longest hike of our entire trip. 

But we weren't worried, it was still early and Thunderbird pond had us mesmerized. In Texas the word pond conjures a much different mental image. I half expected a small, stagnant, mirky watering tank. But Thunderbird pond is the complete opposite. I turn to our guide and say “this is a pond?” He just smiles and asks if he can take our picture. 



Thunderbird Pond and Thunderbird Falls


My wife and I at Thunderbird Pond
The day has warmed up fast and the water is so inviting both my wife and I think about swimming. But there is no time...we have a long way to go today. We push on ahead and begin to switchback up toward 6255 foot Brown Pass. And as we climb higher we catch glimpses of Dixon and Thunderbird Glacier feeding two gigantic waterfalls. One thing is for sure...the further we hike...the prettier it gets. But even these begin to disappear behind the ridge as we near the top of the pass and the Continental Divide.



My wife thinks about jumping in Thunderbird Pond.


Looking back at Dixon Glacier


Heading up toward Brown Pass
At the top our Guide gives us a choice. We have made good time, so if we would like we can take a mile or two detour toward Hole in the Wall. I look to my wife. For the last couple of days she has been nursing two heel blisters which only seem to be getting worse. Every step brings pain and we have only come about a third of our journey today.

Our guide tells us there is some spectacular views to be seen and we may never get the chance again. “Its up to you” he says “but to me thats the reason you're here.” He’s right and my wife knows it. Her heels may hurt but this could be a once in a lifetime opportunity. 

We head off to the northwest across a large snow field. My wife’s blisters are slowing us down and our guide is having trouble keeping our pace. He knows better than all of us the time constraints we are in so he stops and offers to stay with our packs. At first I resist...I’m not used to hiking with a guide and I feel bad leaving him there to babysit. But he assures us it is his job and that he has seen it all before. So we head off toward Hole in the Wall grateful to be hiking without the packs. 



A snow field along the Boulder Pass Trail


My wife's heel blister. Taken 5 days after this trip
Before long Bowman lake comes into view down at the bottom of the valley. Bowman lake is were we will camp tonight. It looks so far away and is almost discouraging. I know its not as far as it looks...but my wife sees something different...giant blisters. Its going to be a long way down. But right now the task at hand is getting a glimpse of Hole in the Wall. We continue around the ridge until the spectacular waterfalls come into view. Part of me wishes we were headed this way over Boulder Pass. But the Hole In The Wall campsite is closed under lingering snow. It's one of the reasons why we are headed to Bowman instead. We sit on the edge of the trail and gaze down into the deep ravine before us. At least a dozen waterfalls our in our immediate view including Hole In The Wall which is a waterfall that originates out of a small hole in the cliff face.



Looking down Bowman valley to Bowman Lake. Bowman lake is were we camped that night


Boulder Pass trail with Bowman lake in the distance


Boulder Pass Trail just before we round the corner to Hole in the Wall


Approaching Hole in the Wall. You can barely see it in this photo.


Hole in the Wall is on the Left.


A better angle further down the trail. Hole in the Wall is on the left
It is so pretty here I think I could sit here all day. But my body is telling me its time to keep moving. It’s nearing lunch time and all our food is in our packs back with our guide. Plus a storm is coming in over Boulder Pass so we decide it was time to head back. We are glad we came. The extra miles were well worth the view.  We rejoin our Guide and eat another round of cheese, crackers, and beef jerky before heading back to Brown Pass. 



Looking down on Brown Pass. The large snow field in the middle of the pass is the remains of a large avalanche. 
At the Bowman Lake Trail junction we lose the trail altogether. Sometime last winter a huge avalanche came through the area completely demolishing the trail and the Brown Pass Campsite. A huge pile of snow, downed trees, and other debris covers this part of the trail. We at least know which direction to head but are forced to zig zag through a relentless maze of downed trees. Unsure which way to go we take a higher path and realize quickly that the trail is down below the ridge. We stop to assess our position when it starts to rain. We drop the packs under a couple of large trees as our guide heads off down the ridge to see if he can find a way back to the trail. My wife and I stay with the packs and before long the mosquitos find us. Or should I say attack us.



Hiking across avalanche debris toward were we think the trail is.



Still negotiating the Avalanche Field. This is the last picture I took of the Avalanche debris. It became too difficult after this to worry about taking pictures.
I have never seen mosquitos quite this bad. I look over at the back of my wife’s shirt which is covered in literally hundreds of mosquitos. With one swat I easily kill 2-3 dozen.   I never find the other head net and I can’t hike to get away. I have no choice but to stand in the rain swatting at mosquitos till our guide gets back. When he finally rejoins us the mosquitos find him as well. Fresh meat. Later he tells us that was the worst he had ever seen. I don’t know why but for some reason it makes me feel better. 



My shoulder covered in Mosquito bites. I received these bites through my shirt. 
in the mean time he has found the trail but its not going to be easy to get back to. We drop down below the steep ridge through some thick Huckleberry Bushes. the terrain is so steep we have to sit and slide down on our butts while gripping the Huckleberry Bushes to slow our decent. We are still dealing with the effects of the avalanche. Climbing up over and sometimes under countless downed trees. But then we see the demolished pit toilet of the Brown Pass backcountry campsite. With a little more looking we find a couple of tent pads and eventually the trail. A couple of hours have gone by and we have only moved about 1/8 mile. Its going to be a long day.

All the way down the ridge the mosquitos have followed us. But the good news is it has stopped raining. We stop to take off our rain gear which only invites the mosquitos to feast on the rest of our bodies. No matter...now that we have found the trail we have a chance of out-walking the mosquitos. “Let’s get moving” I say and before long we leave the mosquitos behind us. 



Heading down Bowman Valley


A random waterfall along the Bowman Lake Trail


Some Bear Grass along the Bowman lake trail.




Bear Grass. Each flower is a tiny Lily.
All the way down the valley the trail is surrounded by Cow Parsnip as tall as my shoulders. The rain is coming and going and as it does it soaks the Cow Parsnip, which eventually soaks my pants, which eventually runs down my legs into my boots. Within minutes everyone’s boots are soaked. But there is nothing to do but continue.



Some tall Cow Parsnip along the Bowman lake Trail


Looking back up toward Hole in the Wall.
As we near the bottom of the valley Bowman Creek braids itself across the trail in multiple spots. The first couple of crossings have easy logs stretched across to help us stay dry. But before long we reach a section with no easy way to cross. Our guide asks if we want to ford the creek or hike up and see if we can find a log to cross. I ask him what he would rather do. He chooses to find a log and we follow him through thick brush up the side of the creek. 



Bowman Creek
A short way up the creek he finds a rather thick log and starts out across it. But after a few steps he stops. The log has come to rest several feet above fast moving water and looks rather weak in the middle. Our guide isn’t a small guy and has a very heavy pack on (my guess would be close to 75 lbs, the dude was amazing). 

He yells out to me “you guys don’t have to do this.” 

I chuckle and respond “that log looks weak in the middle.” 

“I agree” he says “you want to go back and just ford the creek”

“Sounds like a plan, besides, my boots are already soaked.” 

We decide to take off our boots, however, and put on sandals. My boots might be wet but I see no point in dunking them in the creek, I do want them to dry out eventually. We cross the creek and sit down to put our boots back on. We have to repeat this several times as we cross different sections of Bowman creek. On our last crossing our guide and my wife cross on a narrow log. I follow them across but somehow manage to slip into fast moving water up to my thighs. I have my expensive DSLR around my neck which nearly meets its demise in the water. But I managed to gain my balance before it falls in. Now my boots are beyond soaked...I abandon the log and finish crossing through the creek.



Fording Bowman Creek
I look at our Guide and my wife. We are all tired, soaked and ready for camp. My wife is still dealing with bad blisters and wet boots have only made it worse. Camp seems like it will never come. But we keep on trekking and before long we arrive at Upper Bowman campsite. 



A fog comes in as we cross Bowman Creek for the last time.


Bowman Lake Trail
It is nearly dark when the rain lets up. Our guide and I decide to set up the tents before it starts again. I rush to get everything set up and then sit down on a log in utter exhaustion. Our guide looks over at me and asks: 

“You pooped?”

“yes”

“me too” he replies “It was a challenging day.”

“Yes” I say with a deep breath “but I somewhat enjoyed it.”

“yeah sometimes I like a good challenge.”

I think...me too...Thankful tomorrow will be an easy day. 

The Hike:
Starting Location: Francis Lake
Ending Location: Upper Bowman Lake
Starting Elevation: 5250 feet
Ending Elevation: 4250 feet
Highest Elevation: 6255 feet
Elevation Change: Up 1000 feet, Down 2000 feet



Day three of our five day backpack through Glacier National Park


Our hike color coded by day. Blue = Day One, Red = Day Two, Yellow = Day Three, Green = Day Four and Five


Day three elevation profile

Related Posts:
Lake Francis - Glacier National Park
Glacier National Park Backpack - Goat Haunt to Waterton River Campsite and Rainbow Falls
Glacier National Park - A highlight video

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Week in Review - September 4th, 2011


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 19:00:00 +0000
Here are some blogs that caught my eye this week. Enjoy.

Sonja just got back from Brazil...here are some highlights from her trip.



Sonja's view from Cabeca Do Indio

A fellow West Texas blogger is back after a long hiatus and has a post about Skyline drive in Davis Mountains State Park. Click here to read my report about Fire Damage on Skyline Drive.

You have probably read about the lady who punched the bear in the nose...but if not...then here it is.

Michael has an interesting interview with Alex Honnold and what its like to live out of a van.

Cole gives us a report from Sly Park aka Lake Jenkinson.



Cole's view in Sly Park
I shared day two of our five day backpack through Glacier National Park. Day three will be out Tuesday so be sure and check back.

Rachel was just across the border in Waterton Lakes NP, Alberta climbing Vimy Peak

This wasn't from this week but caught my eye none the less...Branden has a great piece on why Outdoor Bloggers need to compete with Big Outdoor Media. This is my Recommended Read.

Michael has a review on a tiny little GSI salt and pepper shaker.

I hope you enjoy them as much as I did.

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



MYOG - Free Waterproof High Quality Topo Map Using USGS Quads.


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 15:00:00 +0000
I love my GPS...but recognize its limitations. Most experts will tell you relying on a GPS as your only means of navigation, can be dangerous. Even if GPS limitations could be overcome...sometimes it just feels good to have a paper map in your hands. 



Read below to see how you can make this free, waterproof, high detail, topo map
My favorite map supplier is Trails Illustrated. Their maps are detailed, waterproof, and tear resistant. At $10-12 a map, however, it can get expensive fast, and they are limited to a handful of popular parks and destinations. Some time ago I began looking for an alternative, inexpensive, map solution. That’s when I found Free Downloadable USGS quads. 

The USGS has hundreds of thousand high quality scans of their most detailed 7.5 minute quads available to download on their website (Click here to go straight to the map locator). Locating the map you need is as easy as browsing through Google maps. But they are still in digital (PDF) format. 






USGS Map Locator Interface. Browse the interface just like google maps. When you find the lacation you want click "MARK POINTS" to the right of the map and drop a "marker" on your desired location. Click on the red marker to see a info bubble with the available maps you can download. I prefer the design of older maps but feel free to download which ever map you like.


To overcome this I first began printing them off my home computer. The only problem was USGS quads are huge, about 22 by 27 inches. When you shrink that down to a 8.5x11 sheet of paper it loses all the detail. To solve this I started printing the large files on our color copier at the office. But I still ran into a size problem. The largest sheet I can print is 11x17, which will only fit about a third of a USGS quad without losing detail. I started thinking and came up with a solution for a detailed, waterproof, tear resistant, foldable map that was also free...or at least mostly free.



Cropping the map in Photoshop. Notice the rulers at the top and left hand side. These will allow you to crop to your desired paper size.
In order to get the most map I could I started cropping out 11x17 inch map sections using a software program like Photoshop Elements.  I then printed each 11x17 inch section individually, making sure they overlapped each other a little.



11x17 inch printouts of a USGS quad
I then cut each 11x17 inch sheet in to four equal strips about 4.25 inches wide. I laid all the pieces out on the table, in order, like a puzzle. My plan was to eventually laminate the map to get the waterproof, and tear resistant qualities I was looking for. I made sure to leave about a quarter of an inch between each piece and taped the pieces together with clear scotch tape. The quarter inch gap is important as it allows easy folding once the map is laminated.



Cut each 11x17 inch section in to four equal strips.


Tape the pieces together leaving about 1/4 inch between each piece.
Several print shops provide laminating services for a small fee. But I was looking for free, so I went up to church which has a large laminating machine in their supply room. I warmed up the Laminator and fed the delicately taped map into the machine Once it was done, I trimmed the excess laminate and folded the map on the precut seems.



Feed the taped map through a laminator. 


It comes out the other side durable, and waterproof.
Total cost to me. $0.00 for a high quality, detailed, waterproof, tear-resistant Map. 



Laminated USGS Quad
You can do this too:

Don’t have access to a large color copier? You can still use your printer at home...you just have to crop out 8.5x11 inch sections rather then the larger 11x17 inch size. Use the ruler feature inside Photoshop and similar programs to make sure your cropping the map to right size. You may end up with more sheets but the results should be about the same.

Don’t have access to a Laminator? You can always take it to your local print shop but it won’t be free. Instead call your local church or school office and ask if they would allow use of their machines. 


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Lake Francis - Glacier National Park


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 15:50:00 +0000
This is Day Two of our Five Day Backpack in Glacier National Park. Click here to read a report on Day One.

I’m lying down, face up, on the rocky shore of a remote alpine lake. Nearby I hear the sound of water falling 1,500 feet into the cold, turquoise, lake . For now the sun is warm, the breeze is welcome, and I believe I have found heaven on earth. 



My first view of Lake Francis
It is the end of our second day in Glacier National Park’s Backcountry. My wife and I have arrived at Francis Lake. We have relieved our sore feet from the confines of our boots, and are content to do nothing but rest. Before now I had no idea any such place could exist...maybe it’s just the exhaustion from the day...but this, I think, could be the most beautiful place I have ever been. 



Earlier the same day our guide lead us a short distance to the top of Rainbow Falls on the Waterton River. Not too bad...its more of a cascade then a waterfall but if rainbow falls existed in Texas...no doubt a state park would be built around it. As for Glacier...it is hardly a waterfall at all. Standing at the top of Rainbow falls I wonder if I would see any more waterfalls on this trip? I ask our guide about future waterfall viewing opportunities. All he says is “just wait until you get to camp tonight.” I can’t wait...lets get moving. 



Rainbow Falls
The hike to Francis Lake is “boring” according to our guide. “Its all trees with no views.” I can’t remember how long he has been hiking in Glacier’s Backcountry... but If I remember correctly it is somewhere around 45 years. It is obvious he has been spoiled to its beauty. Some 1,500 miles away in West Texas trees are a rare commodity. Living there has given me an appreciation of all things, wooded, hilly, and wet no matter how “boring” they may be. I am happy to be hiking in the woods views or no views.



Hiking up to Francis Lake


Our Guide next to a huge Western Hemlock


Some unknown (to me) flowers that my wife really liked
Before long our guide points out a pink flower he calls “Fireweed.” The flower is beautiful but that is not why he has stopped to tell us about it. Rather, when fireweed is blooming, somewhere Huckleberries are ripening. I try not to get my hopes up...it seems anytime I am in a place with wild edibles...I’m there in the wrong season. But not this time...within a mile we have found some wild Huckleberries. I can’t believe my luck. I carefully select a handful of berries and pop a few in my mouth. It reminds me of a blueberry but tart. Which suites me just fine because I have always found blueberries a little on the bland side. We continue down the trail with me lagging behind picking Huckleberries. 



Wild Huckleberry


Wild Huckleberry 
Three miles into the hike we arrive at Janet lake and stop to eat lunch. The water in lake Janet seems so inviting and it is just warm enough to think about swimming...I know the water is freezing...but I can’t help myself. I take it slow and begin by just wetting my feet a little. The water is so cold its painful. Maybe I won’t be swimming today after all. Instead I rejoin my wife and guide for some cheese, crackers, and beef jerky before getting back on the trail.



Coming up on Lake Janet


Lake Janet with some Fireweed in the Foreground
As we begin to approach Lake Francis I can barely make out the towering waterfall through the trees. The trail passes high above the camp and we have to turn off and head down a few hundred feet to the campsites. We stop at the food prep area first and drop off our food. We aren't there for more then a minute when the mosquitos find us and they are relentless. I put on everything I own...jacket, gloves...just to keep them at bay. Thankfully our guide is watching out for us and has brought along two extra head-nets. It’s the only way to keep them off you. We leave the food and drop off our tent and sleeping gear at the tent site before heading down to the lake.



Its another 100 feet decent, at least, to the Lake...mosquitos following us the whole way. We pass through some high brush before rounding the corner to our first good view of the lake. A small breeze picks up and is just enough to drive the mosquitos away. I can’t believe my eyes....Lake Francis is beautiful. Everything combined made it the perfect pay off. Tired from the hike...annoyed by the mosquitos...the day cooling off enough to make the direct sun pleasant. Everything came together in a single beautiful moment. I lay on the beach with my wife. We both agree...this is heaven on earth. 



Lake Francis and Dixon Falls. This picture doesn't even begin to do it Justice




The Top of Dixon Falls fed by Dixon Glacier


My wife and I at Lake Francis


Laying in the Sun on the shore of Lake Francis
The Hike:
Start: Goat Haunt Ranger Station
Stopping point: Lake Francis
Starting Elevation 4199 feet
Ending Elevation: 5384 feet
Elevation Change: 1185 feet
Distance on Day Two 6.3 Miles



Our Path on Day Two


Day Two Elevation Profile


Our Trip over the 5 Days. Blue = Day One, Red = Day Two, Yellow = Day Three, Green = Day Four and Five
Related Posts:
Glacier National Park Backpack - Goat Haunt to Waterton River Campsite and Rainbow Falls
Glacier National Park - A highlight video from my recent trip

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Week in Review - August 28th, 2011


Posted: Sun, 28 Aug 2011 22:43:00 +0000
It's been awhile since I posted a Week in Review. Here are some things that caught my eye this week.

  John has a great report on an Almost thru hike of the John Muir Trail



John's son on the John Muir Trail
Lauralee gave us some good advice on Rain.

Cole took us on a tour of Lake Lagunitas



Cole caught this Coyote eying this turkey

Beth talked about some Dream Hikes 

Robert took us around Mill Creek Canyon some more.



Roberts view on the Mt. Aire Trail
Loran has been blogging for more then three years now...thats a long time in the blogosphere.

I posted Day One of my five day backpack in Glacier National Park. Day Two will be out tomorrow so be sure to check back then. 

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Texas Parks and Wildlife Could Suffer Under Hefty Budget Cuts - Devil's River SNA Closed During The Week.


Posted: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 16:32:00 +0000
Texas Parks and Wildlife (TPWD) could suffer under hefty budget cuts. It seems the TPWD will lose 21.5% of their current funding over the next two years. That equates to nearly $150 million dollars and almost 231 full time employees. This could potentially shut down a number of Texas State Parks.



Dolan Falls Near Devil's River SNA
TPWD is already planning to transfer some parks to local control while others will be open fewer hours during the week. For instance Devils River SNA will only be open on weekends starting in September. Primitive campsites along the river will still be available 7 days a week for paddlers who have come down the river only. (Which is a relief after the Devils River SNA closer scare last year.) More parks will close during the week like the Devil's SNA...but if funds are not raised...some parks could close indefinitely.  But there is light at the end of the tunnel.

Legislature has passed a rider that says if TPWD can generate revenue from park fees they can save about 60 full time jobs. Hoping to raise funds TPWD has currently laid off 111 people from about 3,100 total employes and hopes to keep the rest. 

You can help TPWD stay open. Simply go visit your state parks more this year Go camping, hiking, and paddling as often as you like or time allows. The entrance fees you pay to play will help keep TPWD afloat and the park gates open. As anyone from Texas knows...we have some truly unique places here....and to lose access would be a tragedy. 

Additional Resources:
Texas Parks and Wildlife Manages 21.5 Percent Cut in 2012 Budget
Devils River State Natural Area


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Glacier National Park Backpack - Goat Haunt to Waterton River Campsite and Rainbow Falls


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 14:00:00 +0000
In early 2010 I entered and won, a contest hosted by Agion Active. My prize? An all expense paid trip to Glacier National Park through Glacier Guides. All year long I waited patently for what ended up being the trip of a lifetime. So in early August my wife and I took a Guided 5 day backpack through Glacier’s Backcountry. We started at the head of Waterton Lake and traveled 26 miles over Brown’s Pass to the foot of Bowman Lake. The trip was so Amazing I am finding it too hard to fit it all into a single post...so I have decided to break it up into multiple posts. This post will feature the first day of our 5 day Backpack from Goat Haunt to Waterton River Campsite and Rainbow Falls.



Our five day Backpack began at the Goat Haunt Ranger Station located deep in Glacier’s Backcountry. You can only access it by hiking in, or by boat from Canada. We drove 3 hours from the Glacier Guides office in West Glacier to Waterton Lakes National Park in Canada. Our original plan was to take the 1:00 pm boat from Waterton to Goat Haunt, but with construction and border crossing delays we missed the 1:00 pm boat.



Waterton Lakes National Park
The next boat didn’t depart till 4:00 pm...so my wife and I spent a little time walking the streets of Waterton. Waterton is a small town located entirely inside the National Park. Unlike the tourist traps that you typically see in American National Parks this was an actual town with residences, fast food, laundromats, vacation homes, and the like. Walking the streets you can feel the small town charm. My wife and I stopped in Waterton’s extensive gear shop (Waterton Outdoor Adventures) to pick up some last minute gear before picking up one last caffeinated fountain drink at the Subway. As we walked along the streets we couldn’t help but notice the large number of deer lounging around in the shadows of the building. At first this was fascinating....until we realized it is a common occurrence. 



One of many deer wandering Waterton
Before long it was time to board the M.V. International. We went to set our packs down on the lower deck and then took our seats on the open upper deck. As we left dock and rounded the corner into Waterton Lake a strong 20 mph wind came rushing up the lake. This combined with the speed of the boat made a pretty windy ride. The boat captain began announcing small tidbits of info about the International Peace Park among other things that hardly kept my attention. About that time our Guide leaned over to tell us the best view is on the boats bow. Curious, my wife and I headed down the stairs to the front of the boat and stood on the tip of the bow. By far the best spot on the boat. We stood there with the wind in our hair taking in a spectacular view as we made jokes about cliche Titanic Movie scenes.



The M.V. International




My wife in the bow of the M.V. International
As the boat approached the Canada/US boarder the captain slowed down to show us an interesting fact about US/Canada peace treaty. It seems when the two nations were signing the treaty on where the US/Canada border would exist they both agreed they wanted to be able to physically see the border. With no natural features available to mark the 49th Parallel North the nations decided they should clear cut the forest along the Canadian border. I am told this is true of the entire border...where trees exist they are cut down, where there is only grass it is cut a little shorter along the boarder, and where no trees nor grass exist stone boundary markers are erected. 



The clear cut US Canada Border


US Canada border with two stone boundary markers
Once we reached the US side of Waterton Lake a passenger on the boat yelled “bear.” Sure enough, a Sow with three cubs came walking out of the forest. The captain turned the boat around and inched up as close to the shore as possible allowing everyone on board a good, safe, look. Before long the sow began to be concerned about the boat of 100 people or so and began to stand on her hind legs repeatedly. The captain took this as his cue to move on before she got too spooked. We proceeded down the rest of Waterton lake passing only the occasional kayaker.  



A sow with two of her three cubs
When we reached the head of the lake we proceeded to the Goat Haunt Port of Entry which consisted of two rangers at a pic-nic table. They politely asked for our passports, and asked what trail we would take. We received a passport stamp and were sent on our way. A much easier border crossing then the one we experienced earlier that day. 

We didn’t have far to go that night. We headed down the Boulder Pass Trail toward the Waterton River Backcountry Campsites. Before long we reached the Waterton River which was flowing rather deep and fast. There is a ford for horses just opposite the campsites...but a little further down the trail there is a much dryer, warmer, although rickety suspension bridge. Stable enough for only one hiker at a time, the three of us patently waited our turn to cross. Our campsite was just past the river. We  arrived at camp about 6:00 pm and went to drop off our food at the food prep area. 



Preparing to cross the suspension bridge


My wife on the cable suspension bridge over Waterton River


Load Limit: One Hiker
Each Glacier backcountry campsite has three different locations, a site for tents, a food prep area, and a pit toilet. To protect campers from bears all food must be prepared, eaten and stored at the food prep area located approximately 200 feet from the nearest tent site. Each food prep area has a metal hanging system made out of iron pipe. Regrettably, I didn’t get a picture of these unique hanging systems. 



Backcountry Pit Toilet


My wife looking accross Waterton River at the Waterton River Campsite
The next morning the three of took a short hike out to Rainbow falls. We crossed back over the suspension bridge and headed up the short trail to the falls located on Waterton River. The falls are not quite a real waterfall...more of a powerful cascade over large boulders. None the less, my wife and I were in awe at the power the river was displaying. What we didn’t realize was, this was just the beginning...and rainbow falls would be the least impressive waterfall we would see the rest of the trip. 



Heading back across the suspension bridge


Hiking out to Rainbow Falls


Rainbow Falls


Waterton River
The Hike:



Red: Hike to Waterton River Campsite. Green: Hike to Rainbow Falls


Our Five Day Backpack through Glacier Backcountry. More Posts Coming Soon!
Please Check back soon for Day Two of our 5 Day Backpack through Glacier's Backcountry


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Glacier National Park - A highlight video from my recent trip


Posted: Mon, 22 Aug 2011 14:00:00 +0000
I have just recently returned from an extended vacation that took my family and I all the way to Glacier National Park, up into Waterton Lakes National Park in Canada, down to Yellowstone and Grand Tetons and finally through Arches National Park in Utah before finally coming home. This trip marked the end of a long and busy summer that has unfortunately kept me from blogging as often as I would like.

You may remember my pleas for you votes last year in the Agion Active Glacier Guides Contest. Thanks in part to your votes I won a vacation to Glacier National Park which we took at the beginning of August. My wife and I choose a five day Guided backpacking trip through the backcountry of Glacier. We have seen some of the most amazing terrain I have ever encountered and I plan to blog about each day of this amazing trip over the next week or two.

But on my first post back I didn't want to leave you with only promises of great content. So I took the opportunity to put together this short video of some of the amazing things we saw in Glacier. Please take a look...more is coming. And I promise not to leave for a long time.



Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Upcoming Trip Reports - Some Things to Look Forward Too!


Posted: Mon, 01 Aug 2011 14:00:00 +0000
Well it has been a long and busy summer around here. I have had so many things going on with work and other obligations....I simply haven't had the time to blog. And I'm afraid it isn't over yet. Today I begin three weeks vacation that will hopefully take me far beyond the reach of the internet. Once I get back (sometime around the end of August) I will have a lot more time to blog, and a lot of trip reports to write. To give you a little taste of whats to come I will list some of the destinations I will be writing about once I get back. These destinations include:

Davis Mountains, Texas
Lighthouse Lakes Paddling Trail, Texas
Arapaho National Forest, Colorado
Glacier National Park, Montana
Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming

Here is one little photo from an upcoming trip report....can you guess where this is?




Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



What is Geocaching? - A Guest Post


Posted: Thu, 07 Jul 2011 15:00:00 +0000
The following is a guest post by John Koster an avid Geocacher! You can find out more about John on his blog: Cachin' In.

In 2005 I was home for a summer internship with the Alabama Geologic Survey when some of my friends asked if I wanted to “go look for something hidden, with a GPS?” I said OK, but I honestly had no idea what we were doing. We ended up at a war memorial near the mall and the coordinates on my buddy’s phone were telling us to look at an Army Jeep. We looked in the wheel wells and the seats, along the bumper and tires, and found nothing. After looking at some papers he said, “try the dashboard.” Soon enough we had a tube of Army-issue anti-fog goggle cream with a magnet glued to it in hand. Inside was a scroll of paper with loads of strange nicknames. We had just found our first Geocache! As of this writing I have found over 4300 in six years time.



What is Geocaching you ask? It is a game created on the internet in 2000 after Bill Clinton signed an order demilitarizing the Global Positioning Satellite System. This made GPS receivers accurate to around 20-30 ft. Within days of this act someone hid a ten gallon bucket full of assorted items and posted the coordinates in an online message board. Soon there were several more, then hundreds, thousands…. These are geocaches, or just ‘caches’, and they can be as large as buckets or as small as the eraser on a pencil. The current number of geocaches hidden across the globe, on every continent, on Geocaching.com is 1,422,665 hidden by over 5 million active geocachers.



How does this game work you ask? It’s actually pretty simple. Create an account on geocaching.com (the largest geocaching site around) it is totally free! You will then be able to search by latitude and longitude, zip code, city, state…. Find a cache near you, and off you go! Well not just yet, you need something to tell you when you get to the cache site. Any device that can read lat/long should do the trick whether that is a handheld GPS, your car navigation system, many smart phones, some people even use paper maps for added challenge. Input the coordinates and look at the cache page to see if there are any tricks to getting to the spot or preferred parking. Then navigate with your device till you are about 20 feet from ‘ground zero’ as this is when the accuracy of the unit begins to come into question. The next step is to look and see what is the size of this geocache? A micro will be smaller than a 35mm film can, a small could be a sandwich size Tupperware, a regular could be a military ammo can, and a large could be one of those infamous 10 gallon buckets. Start with the larger caches until you get the hang of it.



You’ve now hopefully looked around under rocks and limbs, leaves, mulch, in hollow trees and found the cache. (These should NEVER be buried!) There are three steps to logging your cache. Sign the log with the name you registered on geocaching.com. If there are items in the cache feel free to take one just replace it with something of equal or greater value. Then return the cache to the hiding spot you found it and make sure it can’t be seen by non-geocachers that happen by the spot. That’s it! You found your first cache, now return to the web site and log an online log about your adventure for the cache’s owner to read. It is really that simple. Geocaching will take you to places in your home town you never knew existed. It’s a great way to entertain children on road trips or long hikes too. Remember, people play the game different ways, but it should always be about the adventure!



Guide to the Game


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



The 1,000 Mile Challenge


Posted: Sun, 03 Jul 2011 15:00:00 +0000


Sonja hiking to Truchas Peak, NM
I know I have been in and out a lot...its just the nature of summer for me. I had a few posts I wanted to put up last week but found myself without internet all week long. Oh well.

In the meantime I wanted to let you know about an interesting challenge taking place at Overly Ambitious Me. Sonja has challenged everyone to travel 1000 miles over the next year. The only rule is it must be outdoors and it must be human powered travel be it by foot, paddle, snowshoe, bike or ski.

To keep it interesting Sonja has asked you limit your miles on a bike to only 25% (250 miles) of the 1000 mile total, and that you only count vertical miles traversed while downhill skiing....  Then multiply by 2.

I feel it is important to note that this isn't a contest...it is a challenge. Should you complete 1000 outdoor miles...you will not win anything. But you will feel pretty accomplished. Further more Sonja has agreed to post your progress on her blog Overly ambitious me...just let her know you are interested and provide periodic updates and we can all do this together. 

The challenge officially started July 1st. And so far...I don't have a single mile. I have to get on this. I hope you will join us. Go to Overly Ambitious Me more more details. 

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Joe's Life Outdoors - A Guest Post


Posted: Wed, 22 Jun 2011 14:08:00 +0000
The following is the first Guest Post to ever be featured on MyLifeOutdoors. Thank you to Joe at The Adventures of Jobiwan for promptly providing a wonderful guest post. 

In a recent post by Steven, he had asked if anyone would be interested in writing a guest post. I thought that I would give it a shot. This is my first ever guest post so I hope I don't scare Steven's followers away with it. This also gives me the opportunity to promote my beautiful homeland of Vermont.

My name is Joe and I write the blog The Adventures of Jobiwan.  I usually write stories of my adventures in Vermont but since Steven's blog is titled My Life Outdoors I thought I would stick to that theme. This is my life outdoors.


My life revolves around being outdoors. It completely consumes me. Not one day passes that I don't use the words hike, backpack, woods et cetera in everyday conversation.. I am in the woods of Vermont quite a bit of the time.  It started at a very young age...before I can even remember when I tent camped with my parents. I fished and hunted while a pre-teen and teen with my father and grandfather and went through the boy scouts in which we did a lot of hiking and camping. I do recall the time where I would like to think that it changed my life forever. I was 14 when my scout troop went primitive camping in the winter. We built our own pine bough shelters and stayed in them. I immediately knew that the outdoors, in all her glory, was the route in life that I wanted to follow. And I have for the most part. I will not hunt any longer.


I am blessed to live where I live. Vermont is home to the Long Trail and she and her side trails are the trails that takes up a lot of my time. They are my church, my psych ward, my school, my playground and my workplace. Although I have never completed this beautiful footpath in the wilderness in it's entirety, I have hiked and backpacked quite a bit of the sections that surround my home. My first thru-hike of this historic trail is scheduled for September of this year. Although the Long Trail is not the longest trail or even the most extreme it does have some of the roughest terrain. It is the U.S.'s oldest long distance trail at 101 years of age and was the inspiration for the Appalachian Trail. It is stewarded by the Green Mountain Club and most of the work on these trails, like many around the world, is done by volunteers.


I am an active member in the Green Mountain Club and volunteer a lot of trail work so others can enjoy my beautiful state in it's natural form. I also sector check a short but aggressive trail called the Canty Trail which to me is my baby. I simply love this trail. It's a side trail of the LT system  and offers an array of Vermont terrain...lower wetlands to steep rocky terrain to roots & rocks with waterfalls and impressive views at the 3278 foot summit of Blue Ridge Mountain. It's a 2.4 mile out and back trail with an elevation gain of 1600 feet. This is a great four season day hiking trail.  
I enjoy all the seasons of outdoors Vermont. Winter is one of my favorites. Ironically I live 20 minutes away from some of the best skiing and snowboarding in the East but I refuse to go down a hill with sticks strapped to my feet. I've been skiing a few times in my life but never got into it. Snowshoeing is my thing to do in the winter. It gives me great opportunity to wander off the beaten path aimlessly without too much concern. Backtracking makes this possible. I love winter camping as well...primitive winter camping. Backpack, snowshoes, food, decent warm clothing, snow and I'm good to go.




Spring gives me some down time. The trails are too muddy and as a trail steward I heed Vermont's mud season ordinances. State lands close from mid April to Memorial Day weekend. I do however help do trail maintenance with the GMC before the summer hiking season opens by cutting away blown down trees, repairing puncheons, painting blazes, clearing out waterbars and pruning any overgrown vegetation. It's my time to give back to the trail.




Summer puts on the mileage on my Merrells. I started a hiking group on Facebook last August and have accrued 120 members so far and I have the feeling that this year my summer will be busy. Summer is great in Vermont...not too hot and not too cold. The green of the mountains really pops out. It truly is a great place to hike. Swimming is another favorite activity that I enjoy. Vermont offers many uncharted swimming holes that are just amazing albeit some are quite chilly. Clarendon Gorge is a favorite spot for me to cool down.




Autumn mountains in Vermont are so amazingly beautiful. The foliage is renowned and attracts visitors from around the world. The reds, oranges and yellows dominate the rolling land. This, to me, is the best time to hike and backpack. It's cooler, there are no bugs and the trails and shelters are no longer filled with adventurous college students who spent their summer backpacking.




So there ya have it. My life outdoors in the great state of Vermont. It's a great place to live let alone hike and backpack. The folks here are friendly and the air is clean.


Happy trails!Jobiwan
Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Pine Peak, Texas - 7,710 feet - The Trip From #$@&?


Posted: Sun, 19 Jun 2011 15:00:00 +0000
Since the first time I set foot in the Davis Mountains I have been in love. The Davis Mountains are the largest chain of mountains in Texas and second highest chain in the state. The problem is, most of this chain is privately owned, which means hiking and camping are off limits in all but just a few places. 



Mount Livermore, Davis Mountains, Texas
One of the only exceptions is the Davis Mountain Preserve owned by The Nature Conservancy. But even here access is limited to only a few days a year. Not long ago my family and I had the opportunity to go and hike on the preserve. We had hiked here before, in fact about the same time last year we climbed the highest peak in the range...mount Livermore. This time around, however, I was looking for something new.



The McIvor visitor center on The Nature Conservancy's Davis Mountain Preserve
I’m not exactly sure why but I settled on Pine Peak. Pine peak is not the highest, the steepest, or the longest. There is nothing really to set it apart from any other mountain. At 7,710 feet Pine Peak is the fifth highest in the Davis Mountain Range, and the 12th highest in the state (or 13th depending on who you ask).



Pine Peak seen through the trees on The Natures Conservancy's Davis Mountain Preserve
On paper, Pine Peak seemed like an easy hike. Roughly 2.5 miles one way to the peak with about 1500 feet of elevation gain. An old jeep road would serve as a trail for all but that last half mile. From there we would bushwhack the rest of the way to the top. I looked at my wife, 10 year old and 19 month old daughters...it was nothing they couldn't handle.



My 19 month old, ready to do some hiking


My wife and oldest Daughter with Pine Peak in the Background.
I was wrong. From the moment we set foot on the trail things were difficult for them. The midday temperature would reach nearly 100 degrees, and the first mile seemed to be straight up hill. My oldest daughter became hot and tired very quickly. We agreed to go just to the next batch of shade and rest...then to the next, and the next. This made for some slow going, resting every 100 to 200 feet. We did this till we made it all the way to Pine Peak lake 2 miles from where we started at Shoe Tank.



The view from one of the many shade stops we took along the way.


Sign pointing us toward Pine Peak


Approaching Pine Peak Lake
We were happy to make it to Pine Peak lake. But Pine Peak lake is hardly a lake. In fact after such a prolonged drought this year it wasn’t even a puddle any more. Just dry cracked ground. We stopped here in the shadow of the peak to eat lunch and I wondered if my family would be up for what was going to be the hardest part of the hike.



Dry Pine Peak Lake. I had read Pine Peak lake was resilient and persists annually "even in dry years." Goes to show how bad of a drought we are in right now. 


Pine Peak lake from above.
Somehow my wife managed to bring socks that were too big and began to develop huge blisters. We had stopped to doctor them along the way and did everything we could to prevent them...but it was no use. By the time we had reached pine peak lake her heals were in tremendous pain.

To my surprise, however, she wanted to continue. We had come “too far to quit” she said. We left the trail and started up Pine Peaks eastern and most gradual slope. I still had our 19 month old on my back and was finding it difficult to avoid low lying tree limbs. My wife began to fear her daughter would lose an eye to a poorly negotiated limb.   every 5-10 feet I would hear her gasp as I tried to duck and crawl through thick trees.



The side of Pine Peak


A view through the trees on Pine Peak




Despite even slower progress, we made it to the the false summit where Pine Peak levels out right before the top. My family was not enjoying themselves. We sat and rested for a while and talked about whether we should turn back or push on. My 10 year old was in no mood to continue. We settled on a compromise...I would go on to the summit while they stayed behind to wait for me. With the plan in place, I unloaded just about everything, took a bottle of water and made the final push to the summit.



View from the false summit


Looking down on the false summit where my family stopped to wait for me.
Near the top I encountered quite a bit of scrambling I hadn't expected. It was good the girls stayed behind...I could have never negotiated the summit with a baby on my back. But the scrambling was worth it. As I had expected the views on the top were simply amazing. I could have spent all day there taking in the mountains that seemed to reach forever. I knew, however, that my family would worry if I was gone too long. So after just a few minutes on the summit I began to make my way back down to them. From there we would retrace our steps back to the jeep.



Some large boulders that required a bit of scrambling. You can see McDonald Observatory in the background


My first view from the Summit of Pine Peak


Looking out at the pine covered mountains from the top of Pine Peak


Looking down from on top of Pine Peak


Looking at the West side of Sawtooth Mountain far in the distance. Not many people ever see this side of Sawtooth.


Blue Mountain viewed from the top of Pine Peak
Everyone was glad to be heading back. The hike proved to much more difficult than it appeared. On the way down I think all my girls shed a few tears as they dealt with blisters, sore feet, and cramped toes. My wife says she learned a valuable lesson...anytime I say “its just a little bushwhacking” she knows to sit this one out. It was not the leisurely hike I thought it was going to be. But in the end, I enjoyed the time with my family, even if they didn’t.



Map of Pine Peak, Texas


Pine Peak, Texas Elevation Profile
The Hike:
Distance: 2.9 Miles One Way
Starting Elevation: 6,201 feet
Ending Elevation: 7,710 feet
Elevation Gain: 1509 feet
GPS File of Pine Peak, Texas (GPX Format) 
Davis Mountain Preserve Roads and Trails Map 

Getting There:
Davis Mountain Preserve Gate:  30°42'15.80"N 104° 6'53.99"W
McIvor Visitor Center:  30°42'2.91"N 104° 6'53.12"W
Shoe Tank (Starting Point):  30°40'19.04"N 104° 7'41.46"W
Pine Peak Lake:  30°39'23.64"N 104° 6'33.85"W
Pine Peak Summit:  30°39'19.02"N 104° 6'48.13"W


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Don't Give Up!


Posted: Tue, 14 Jun 2011 13:00:00 +0000
I hate posts like this....but I wanted to let any faithful readers know I am still here...I have been so extremely busy lately it is hard to find time to blog. I have lots of great stuff to write about...but no time to do it. I hope to get a trip report out later this week. Please bare with me for a while.

Here is a sneak peak of a photo from my upcoming trip report.


Stay tuned to find out more.

In the mean time I will steal an idea from Karl over at Live Free and Hike and solicit some guest posts to keep MyLifeOutdoors publishing while I am busy. If you have a niche or expertise related to the outdoor world and would like to write a guest post for me...I would love to hear about it. Please feel free to e-mail me with your ideas at Steven.outdoors (AT) gmail (DOT) com. Who knows...maybe we can get some articles from someone who really knows how to write.

Thank you for reading...I look forward to posting again soon.

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Fire Damage Photos - Davis Mountains State Park, Texas


Posted: Sun, 05 Jun 2011 20:44:00 +0000
It seems the Davis Mountains just can’t catch a break. Just a few weeks after extinguishing the largest fire in Texas history, another fire burns in the Davis Mountains. Just east of Mount Livermore, the Tejano Canyon Fire was started by lightning and has burned 12,000 acres since Friday.



Burnt historic CCC building at Davis Mountains State Park
This happened just days after I left the area and received my first good look at the previous fire damage. This was my second trip to the Davis Mountains since the large Rockhouse fire. My first look at the damage was too fast to really see what had happened. This time around, however, I was able to spend several days in the area and get a good look. In particular Davis Mountains State Park.

Shortly after the Rockhouse fire reached Fort Davis, reports came out that Davis Mountains State Park had suffered damage. Some reports were saying historic CCC buildings had been destroyed while others said no structures had been lost. I was anxious to see what had actually happened. 

Upon arriving at Davis Mountains State park it was obvious large portions of the skyline ridge had been burned. From the campgrounds you could see blackened rock all along SkyLine Drive as it snakes up the side of the park. Curious, we drove up to the top of the ridge to get a better look. From the top we could see that most of the southern side of the park had been burned. Everywhere we looked it seemed fire had scorched the landscape. We drove down toward the National Historic Site, taking in the burnt mountains side. Out of the corner of my eye an orange construction fence caught my eye. This could only mean one thing….fire damage.



Burnt mountainside at Davis Mountains State Park


The completely burnt south side of Davis Mountains State Park. This area is normally covered in waist high grass.


Burnt Yucca and blackened hillside at Davis Mountains State Park


Service road cuts across the burnt south ridge of Davis Mountains State Park


Burnt landscape stretches into the south valley at Davis Mountains State Park.
I hiked out to a small building completely surrounded by orange fencing. It was an old historic CCC structure. It seems the reports were true, small parts of history had been destroyed with the fire. The burnt mountainside is really no big deal….the land will heal itself and be better off after the fires. This isn’t always true of historic buildings. Still it didn’t seem to be a total loss. The structure was expertly made from mostly stone. Its seemed only the roof and window frames where wood. This building could probably be restored with a little effort.



Burnt Historic CCC building at Davis Mountains State Park


The fire destroyed the wooden roof and wooden window frames


Burnt window frame - Davis Mountains State Park
As the day came to a close my family headed up to the lookout to watch the sun set. Once there we saw what was probably the most damage from the fire. Another historic CCC building, this one much more  affected by the fire. Nothing remained but a few upright stone columns. If this is going to be restored, it will take much more effort. My wife and I stood there staring at what remained of the building. It was sad...not two years ago on a date we sat under the shaded porch of this very building and ate a picnic lunch. It now seemed we would never do that again. 



Burnt historic CCC building at Davis Mountains State Park
But as the sun slowly set on the Skyline ridge, and warm golden rays cast themselves on the building’s ruins. I couldn’t help but see beauty among the damage. Even with 75% of the building destroyed, it was still a beautiful work of craftsmanship. It helped to reconfirm in me why the Davis Mountains are such a special place. History, natural beauty, and nature working in a rare Texas mountain range. This is one of my favorite places on earth. Not even fire will change that. 



Burnt historic CCC building at Davis Mountains State Park

Related Resources:
InciWeb: Tejano Canyon Fire


Related Posts:
Fire destroys Parts of Sitting Bull Falls Recreation Area 
Sitting Bull Falls Recreation Area Closed Due to Last Chance Fire 
Last Chance Fire Burns in the Guadalupe Mountains 
Madera Canyon Trail Closed Due to Fire Danger 
Fort Davis Fire Photos - A Special Week in Review 
Davis Mountians State Park Closed Until May 1st. 
Davis Mountains Wildfire Update - April 12, 2011 
Fire Destroys Parts of Davis Mountains State Park in Texas 
Areas of Big Bend National Park Closed Due to Fire Danger  

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



MyLifeOutdoors featured in Backpacker Magazine - Sort of


Posted: Wed, 01 Jun 2011 14:00:00 +0000
It has been more then a week since my last post. Mainly because I have been out of town engaging in many hikes and other activities I hope to share with you soon. Until then I wanted to point out something I have been slightly excited about.

Not long ago I was contacted by Backpacker Magazine about a trip report for Guadalupe Peak. They asked me for some information and said they wanted to feature my trip in their June National Parks issue. Of course I was happy to oblige.



The Guadalupe Mountains blurb in Backpacker Magazine
 If you look on page 97 of the June 2011 issue of Backpacker magazine you will see small blurb about Guadalupe Mountains National Park. Neither my name nor MyLifeOutdoors.com is listed in the magazine, only a simple refrence to trip ID 1089414. To look up trip ID 1089414 go to Backpacker.com/hikes/1089414 and it will take you to a featured destination that says "Mapped by Steven Smith, mylifeoutdoors.com." from there you will see a map I created along with pictures from my trip. 



My Featured Destination as it appears on Backpacker.com
So there you have it. Its not much...but I thought I would share it with you anyway. With a little luck, maybe I can draw some more attention to Texas' best hikes. until then you can read more about the featured Guadalupe Peak trip by going here.


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



SPOT Messenger Owners Responsibility - Part Two


Posted: Mon, 23 May 2011 13:59:00 +0000
This is a continuation of Thursday's post: SPOT Messenger Owners Responsibility - Part One. Please click here to read the first half of this post.

What is the responsibility of Locater Beacon owner? Not that long ago, a couple from New Bruswick, British Columbia activated their beacon when they climbed a steep trail and could not get back down. A helicopter lowered them 200 feet to secure footing. In September 2009, a hiker from Placer County was panning for gold in New York Canyon when he became dehydrated and used his rescue beacon to call for help. Later the same day, Mono County sheriff's deputies asked the National Guard for a high-altitude helicopter and a hoist for a treacherous rescue of two beacon-equipped hikers stranded at Convict Lake. The next day they hiked out on foot.



Obviously behavior like this is irresponsible. As I discussed Thursday, I see at least three areas where I, as a new SPOT messenger owner, can be more responsible. First, I must be properly prepared and conditioned for the activities I engage in. Two, I must calm down and assess any emergency situation before reaching for my SPOT Messenger. Three, I can’t substitute my SPOT for the development of good self rescue skills.  

Proper Preparation:

I bought a SPOT Messenger because I realize that their are numerous ways I can get into trouble in the backcountry. No matter what I do, there are some dangers that are outside of my control. These risks can be minimized with Proper preparation.

Preparation comes in many different forms. Research, gear, skill, physical condition and experience all play a role in our preparation. It is my responsibility to make sure I am adapt in all these areas before venturing outdoors. 

Before I go on a trip I must research the type of terrain and weather that could be encountered, as well as water sources available (among other things). If during research I realize any of these factors are more then my skill, experience, or available gear can handle, I have the responsibility to NOT go. A SPOT, or similar locator beacon, is not a substitute for this level of preparation.

This is the mistake made by the fathers and sons team I mentioned Thursday. After being cited for "creating a hazardous condition" for rescue teams, the leader admitted he would have never undertaken the grueling hike without a personal locator beacon. He was substituting technology for preparation. 


Calmly Assess Emergencies:

Even the adequately prepared can still find themselves in trouble. If I find myself in a bind, my first responsibility is to calmly assess my situation. What seems like a crisis at first may not be an actual emergency. 

As a general rule a person can survive 3 minutes without air, 3 hours without shelter, 3 days without water, and 3 weeks without food. The real question is: when in that survival process is it appropriate call for help? If I am not hurt, or in danger, I believe it is my duty to at least try and self rescue before calling for help. After all, every time a Search and Rescue team is deployed, they put themselves in danger.  This brings me to my third point.

Develop Self Rescue Skills:

Good self rescue skills should be part of anyone's preparation stage. There are certain things you really need to know how to do before heading to the backcountry. Included in these are map and compass skills, fire building, how to locate water, build shelter, and more. If I can safely do these things as I attempt to exit my situation, I have the responsibility to try.

With all that said, I also have a responsibility to my friends and family. If I still find myself in trouble after calmly assessing my situation, I owe it to the people I love to call for help before its too late. Assuming the danger is real, SAR crews desire nothing more than to safely reunite you with your family. The balance between the responsibilities cannot be taken lightly.



SAR advertisement stating: "We'll Get You Out"
All of these assume a certain degree of common sense. Many of the people in the above situations believed they were in danger when they actually weren't. As cruel as it may sound, these people had no business being in the backcountry to begin with. They would do better to rely on a guide or experienced friend, rather then a locator beacon, to keep them safe. 

But maybe you dissagree? What do you believe a Locator Beacon's owner responsibility is? I would love to hear your opinions. 

Related Resources:
Using Personal Locator Beacons Responsibly
Personal Locator Beacon Abuse
Tired from a hike? Rescuers fear Yuppie 911 

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



CLIF Bar Giveaway Winner - and My Own Meet The Moment


Posted: Sun, 22 May 2011 15:00:00 +0000
It is time to announce the winner of the CLIF Bar Prize Giveaway. Last night I closed out the comments and looked to Random.org to select a winner. Random.org choose comment number four which belongs to Albert Quackenbush. Congratulations, you have won a caddy with 12 CLIF Bars, a CLIF t-shirt, and a CLIF water bottle or hat. Please note the prize may differ slightly from what is pictured,  including flavor of the CLIF Bars and the type of T-shirt but you  will receive both.


If you will e-mail me at steven.outdoors (AT) gmail (DOT) com with the   addres you want the swag shipped to I will get it off to you as   soon as possible. Be sure and replace (AT) with the @ symbol and (DOT)   with a period.Please respond before Thursday May 26th or I will give it to someone else.


Don't forget about the great stuff CLIF bar is doing with the meet the moment campaign. If you head over to www.meetthemoment.com you can share your own outdoor moment by creating a picture story on their website. Shortly after I lunched this giveaway I went over to create my first moment shown below.



My moment came from my families first summit attempt of Mount Livermore in the Davis Mountains. You can read more about that trip here. 

If you go and create a similar moment CLIF Bar will donate $5 to one of five non-profit projects, each project is focused on Protecting the Places we Play  – or as they say the places we "Meet the Moment." If CLIF bar collects  10,000 Moments, they will double the contribution dedicated to each  project! And every time you upload a new Moment you have the chance to  win your next adventure...like trekking the Amazon or backpacking across  Europe. Any adventure costing up to $8,000. It’s up to you!

Its worth checking out...remember that most people don't enter contests because they thing they won't or can't win. The chances are probably better than you think. So head over to www.meetthemoment.com and meet your moment. 

Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



Week in Review - May 21, 2011


Posted: Sat, 21 May 2011 14:23:00 +0000
I'm doing my Week in Review post a day early this week because I will be announcing the winners of the CLIF BAR giveaway tomorrow. If you haven't entered yet you still have time. The giveaway will close tonight at midnight eastern time. Go to the giveaway post to enter.

Otherwise...here are some blogs that caught my attention this week:

Lauralee shares some tips for healing sprained ankles. 

Tom gives us some point and shoot photography tips.

Atom shares some stunning photos of Yosemite' from his trip there last September. This is my recommended read.



Atom's view of Yosemite valley from Glacier Point
Chris camps on an island in San Francisco Bay.  

Philip talks to us about eliminating extra cloths you don't use on backpacking trips. This is something I have slowly begun to learn 

Dobbs hikes up The Mexican Canyon Trestle Trail and introduces me to the new Enchanted trial I'm going to have to try once the Lincoln NF opens back up.

Brian and Ashley head off around the San Juan Loop

I share my thoughts on SPOT GPS Messengers and Owner Responsibility 

Dave shares his thoughts on ultra long distance day hiking (30 and 40 miles in one day.) I don't know that I will be trying that anytime soon. 

And Last but not least...my daughter drew this lovely picture of all the places we will be going this summer.




If you look closely you will see Canada, Idaho, Montana, Louisiana, Wyoming, and more.



Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



SPOT Messenger Owners Responsibility - Part 1


Posted: Thu, 19 May 2011 17:38:00 +0000
I recently took my 10 year old daughter with me to purchase a SPOT gps messagner. As we were walking out of the store my daughter asked her usual curious questions. “What’s that for…What does it do?” I explained to her that if we ever got lost or in trouble while we were hiking, we could use it to call 911 or something similar. My daughter already believes I get lost more than actually do. 



SPOT GPS Messenger 
She asked “So when (not if) we get lost we can push that button and someone will come find us?” I said ”well yes…but we can’t push it right away!” of course her next question was “why not…When can we push it?” Now that is a good question.

My daughter wanted an exact time or instance when pushing the SPOT’s S.O.S button would be appropriate. She wanted me to say we could push it after two hours of being lost…or after 2 days of being lost. She wanted detailed instructions. But the reality is SPOT, and similar locater beacons, don’t come with clear cut instructions.

Locator and Messanger Beacons are becoming more and more affordable. As they do, abuse is becoming more and more rampant. Some time ago a fathers-and-sons team ran out of water in the backcountry of Grand Canyon’s Royal Arch loop. Concerned about their situation the team activated their beacon. Rescuers, who did not know the nature of the call, could not launch the helicopter until morning. When the rescuers arrived, the group had found a stream and declined help. That night, they activated the emergency beacon again. This time the Arizona Department of Public Safety helicopter, which has night vision capabilities, launched into emergency mode. When rescuers found them, the hikers were worried they might become dehydrated because the water they found tasted salty. They declined an evacuation, and the crew left water. The following morning the group called for help again. This time, according to a park service report, rescuers took them out and cited the leader for "creating a hazardous condition" for the rescue teams.

If you search the internet you can find countless similar stories of unprepared people taking risks they can’t handle all because they have the security blanket of a Locator Beacon. It has come to the point that some Search and Rescue teams may begin to question Beacon calls. It is a legitimate question…is the owner of this device really in trouble?  It is a modern day Boy who cried wolf. My fear is that one day a beacon’s S.O.S button will be pushed, its owner will be in serious trouble, and no one will respond.

What this has all boiled down to for me is responsibility. As the new owner of a SPOT gps messenger, I must answer the question my daughter has asked. When can I push the S.O.S. button? As I see it…there are three factors that must come into account. First, I must be properly prepared and conditioned for the activities I engage in. Two, I must calm down and assess any emergency situation before reaching for my SPOT Messenger. Three, I can’t substitute my SPOT for the development of good self rescue skills.

Continue Reading: SPOT Messenger Owners Responsibility - Part 2 


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends!   
Tweet  



New Meet The Moment Campaign and CLIF Prize Giveaway


Posted: Mon, 16 May 2011 15:00:00 +0000
CLIF Bar is launching an exciting new campaign called Meet the Moment. To help launch this campaign CLIF bar is hosting a giveaway on My Life Outdoors featuring a caddy with 12 CLIF Bars, a CLIF t-shirt, and a CLIF water bottle or hat. More about that in a minute. First let me tell you about what CLIF bar is doing.



CLIF Bar Prize Package

Meet the Moment is a consumer experience that is all about supporting the pursuit of athletic adventure and the lifestyles and communities that come with it. Whether Hiking, Backpacking, Paddling, Sking, or any other adventure. CLIF Bar wants to know how you Meet the Moment. They want you to upload photos and share your stories at http://www.meetthemoment.com/ or via their mobile app!

As part of this campaign, when users create their first Moment, CLIF Bar will donate $5 to one of five non-profit projects, each project is focused on Protecting the Places we Play – or as they say the places we "Meet the Moment." If CLIF bar collects 10,000 Moments, they will double the contribution dedicated to each project! And every time you upload a new Moment you have the chance to win your next adventure...like trekking the Amazon or backpacking across Europe. Any adventure costing up to $8,000. It’s up to you!

The Meet the Moment campaign begins today at http://www.meetthemoment.com/. I hope that some of you will be the first to share some of your photos showing how you Meet the Moment. If so, your photos will serve as inspiration to others...and hopefully be chosen the winner to receive your next adventure.

In order to kick off the Meet the Moment campaign CLIF bar has donated a prize pack to giveaway on My Life Outdoors. The prize pack includes a caddy with 12 CLIF Bars, a CLIF t-shirt, and a CLIF water bottle or hat. To win... this is what you have to do:

The Giveaway...

Only subscribers of My Life Outdoors are eligible to win the CLIF bar Prize package. A subscriber is anyone who follows My Life Outdoors through Google Friend Connect, the RSS feed, email, Twitter, or Facebook. If you follow (or begin following) in any of these ways your eligible. Then...

Spread the word... let your friends and social networks know you have entered a giveaway on MyLifeOutdoors.com and that they should enter too. You can do this through your blog, twitter, facebook, or something similar. It doesn’t really matter how, as long as you let other people know in some way. Once you have done that come back here and leave a comment below telling me how you follow and how you spread the word.. I will shut off the comments at midnight Eastern time Saturday May 21st. On Sunday May 22nd I will randomly select one of the comments on this post as the winner. Be sure and check back at that time to see if you are one of the winners. Only one entry per person!

Please note the prize may differ slightly from what is pictured above including flavor of the CLIF Bars and the type of T-shirt but the winner will receive both.

Good Luck!


Did you like this post? Please share it with your friends! 
Tweet





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


