lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Sunday, September 11, 2011
Jonathan Koch (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:13 am 
 


When I first wrote about him in early 2010, painter Jonathan Koch had recently started posting his small paintings online, at the time listing his name as J. Bernard Koch. Shortly after that he seemed to take a hiatus of sorts to work on larger projects, but is now back to posting his small works more often, with a new website address (though the original still works, pointing to the new site).
Koch paints beautifully refined and wonderfully tactile still life subjects, with lost and found edges heightening the sense of depth evoked by his use of chiaroscuro. His carefully controlled palette and subtle manipulation of light carry echoes of the 17th Century Dutch still life masters.
Koch also paints muted, atmospheric landscapes, again with a restrained palette and skillful use of soft edges and suggestion.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: http://jonathankochstudio.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Saturday, September 10, 2011
The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation (paperback)

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:46 pm 
 


If you are:
A) Not already overloaded with information about 9/11
B) Interested in the official 911 Report issued in 2005 by the 911 Comission
C) Not inclined to wade through the original report’s 800 plus pages, and would rather have the report summarized in a convenient 144 page graphic story format 
then here is the book for you: The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation was written by Sid Jacobson and illustrated by veteran comics artist Ernie Colón; it was released in 2006.
Though the pages are no longer available online on the Slate site as I reported in my original post at the time, they have archived an interactive of the first chapter. 
In addition, the Amazon.com page for the book includes both a regular preview (more extensive if logged in) and sample pages further down the page along with the chapter listings and additional information.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation (Amazon)
Chapter 1 archive on Slate
My previous post from 2006

Posted in:  Comics   |   Comments »


Thursday, September 8, 2011
Keiko Tanabe

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:02 pm 
 


Originally from Kyoto, Japan and now living in San Diego, California, watercolor artist Keiko Tanabe has traveled extensively and applied her eye and brush to scenes from Japan, China, France, Italy and the U.S.
Her beautifully atmospheric watercolors capture a sense of time and place, accomplished with careful control of color, suggestions of texture and insightful skill at defining soft and crisp edges. The latter skill, in particular, enlivens her renderings of street scenes and architecture, which I particularly enjoy. She also excels at portraying water and wet surfaces, often with a wonderful economy of brushwork.
The galleries on her website are divided by geographical location. She also maintains a blog and a gallery on Daily Paintworks as well as a selection of works, along with comments from collectors and other artists, on FASO.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: http://ktanabefineart.com, with galleries
Blog
Daily Paintworks
FASO

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Watercolor and Gouache   |   2 Comments »


Wednesday, September 7, 2011
Into the Pixel

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:57 pm 
 


Into the Pixel is a yearly juried art exhibit showcasing concept and visual development art from the gaming industry.
Sponsored by the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences and the Entertainment Software Association, the exhibition is displayed at the E3 Expo. 
You can also view the selections from this year, as well as the past several years, in the online galleries. The art selections are linked form the “Collection” sublink under each year in the navigation. Hovering over the thumbnails changes the mid size preview; clicking on the thumbnail opens the image in a pop-up window.
The pop-ups list the artist, the game for which the piece was done and the medium — most often digital painting, as well as some 3D modeling and mixtures of the two. There is a wonderfully diverse array of subjects and illustration styles.
(Images above: David Guertin, Aaron Limonick, Corentin Chevanne & Guillaume Bonnet, Lucas Graciano, Hamzah Kasom Osman, Nick Thornborrow, Tom Robinson, Jonathan Kirtz, Brian Thompson & Hamzah Kasom Osman)
[Via Gurney Journey]


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: www.intothepixel.com
Winners art galleries

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   Comments »


Tuesday, September 6, 2011
Robert Beck

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:06 pm 
 


Contemporary representational painter Robert Beck paints many of the same subjects as other plein air painters, but often with a different perspective and intention.  Where others might paint a landmark or familiar scene, Beck looks for the often ignored aspects behind or within the commonplace that put a scene in context — the back rooms, kitchens, stairways, halls and foyers that often go unnoticed. I particularly enjoy his handling of complex interior scenes.
His work has a fresh, painterly immediacy, accented with rough edged passages of vibrant color, that enlivens subjects both familiar and exotic. 
Beck is based in Lambertville, New Jersey (see my post on New Hope, PA and Lambertville, NJ), and some of his most recent paintings are a series of glimpses of life here in nearby Philadelphia. 
His website divides his work into subject categories, like Africa, Europe, Landscape, The Road, The Farm, Interiors, Night and so on. 
In the recent Philadelphia series in particular, most of the works have a “magnifier” feature that allows you to see the brushwork and surface detail a bit better. (Unfortunately, it’s more restrictive than popular Zoomify feature used by many museums.)
Beck studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (image above, second down), and has received recognition that includes a retrospective exhibition of his work at the City of Trenton Museum at Ellarsile and the selection of 37 of his works for an exhibition at the James A. Michener Museum.
I had the pleasure of speaking with Beck in his (then relatively new) studio in Lambertville last year, and found him as personable and knowledgeable as he is skilled. 
Beck has recently begun to utilize the advantage of his larger studio and gallery space to move from informal teaching to the establishment of the Robert Beck Academy, fall classes for which begin in mid-September. 
In addition to his own gallery, which you can visit on Union St. in Lambertville, Beck’s work will be on display in the upcoming exhibition Philadelphia Heartbeat at the Rosenfeld Gallery in Philadelphia (show listing is not up yet on the Roesnfeld site). 
There is a brief video interview with the artist accompanying this article on Pennington Post.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: http://robertbeck.net
Robert Beck Academy
Robert Beck listing at James A. Michener Museum
AskArt
Jersey Arts
Shadefest Art Poster Scholarship Fund
Bio on Arts & Cultural Council of Bucks County
Philadelphia Inquirer
Pennington Post (w/video interview)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Monday, September 5, 2011
Artist Carol Marine’s house lost to fire

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:28 pm 
 


Artist Carol Marine, who I have previously featured here on Lines and Colors, has lost her house and studio to the wildfires currently ravaging parts of Texas.
The fire devastated their entire subdivision. She and her husband and their son were not harmed, but they were able to take only what they could carry when evacuating, and the rest is lost. The good news is that they have fire insurance, but the bad news is that it will take time for that to take effect, and they are living in a camper with few possessions.
If you’d like to help the family get back on its feet, a family friend has started a fund to immediately assist them. 
You could also, of course, bid on some of the wonderfully bright and energetic small paintings that that Marine currently has up for auction through Daily Paintworks (images above). These will change over time as the older auctions end and newer ones replace them, as usual.
As Marine describes on her blog, her small paintings are one of the few things she was able to grab, so the auctions can be fulfilled.
[Via Katherine Tyrrell's Making a Mark and Karin Jurick's A Painting Today]


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: http://carolmarine.blogspot.com
Before the Fire
Auction on Daily Paintworks
Fundraiser
My previous post on Carol Marine

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting a Day   |   1 Comment »



Jean-François Millet

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:27 pm 
 


Today is “Labor Day” here in the U.S., a holiday set aside to honor the economic and social contributions of working people to the society. Ironically, the holiday has come to represent leisure — a three day weekend signifying the unofficial end of Summer.
Perhaps, in the midst of a current political climate in which legislators backed by big money corporate contributors are making a systematic attempt to strip public labor unions of their right to collective bargaining, it’s time to refocus attention on the original significance of the holiday (even though its creation was a matter of political expediency), and not just the barbecues and mini-vacations.
The representation of peasant labor as a reality of life, and not simply as incidental “color” and window dressing for other subjects more palatable to the art-buying upper classes, can be traced to 19th Century French painter Jean-François Millet. 
Unlike his contemporary Gustav Courbet, who also broke with tradition by portraying the working poor in the light of realism, Millet was actually from a peasant family.
Though his paintings of toil in the fields evoked charges of advocating the incipient Socialist movement, as well as lambasts of ugliness from his detractors (of whom there were many), Millet’s intentions were not to foment unrest and change the status of peasant workers. He saw their lot from his own childhood experience as inevitable and unchanging; his goal as an artist was to paint what he saw and what he knew with empathy and understanding. 
His depiction of peasants and their work as possibly “noble”, and therefore elevated beyond their place, aroused the ire of the upper classes, who were, of course, the potential art buyers. After his initial struggles against critical detractors, during which he sold paintings for much less than the asking price and repeatedly had to borrow money, he eventually achieved success and establishment acceptance, and in 1870 was even elected to the Salon jury. 
Millet had significant impact on other artists, both his contemporaries, many of whom formed the core of the Barbizon School, and those who came after. Vincent van Gogh in particular came back to Millet again and again as a source of inspiration, as you can see in his copy (images above, bottom right) of Millet’s Sower (bottom left)
Two of Millet’s works in particular have become iconic, The Gleaners (image above, top), showing peasants continuing to work after the work is done, exercising their right to glean the field of stray grains of wheat after the harvest was finished, and The Angelus (second down). 
The Angelus became one of the most reproduced paintings in history, probably because of religious connotations, though Millet’s intention was simply to show a brief respite from toil, permitted for workers to stop and pray at the tolling of the church bell.
Both paintings have been the subject of homages by other artists. Salvador Dalí was obsessed with The Angelus, painting his own versions of it into several paintings. 
Working peasants were not Millet’s only subjects, he also painted commissioned portraits, landscapes and genre paintings, and was an accomplished draftsman and pastel artist (above, seventh down), but the workers were where his heart was. 
Whatever the conditions of their toil, Millet often bathed his peasants and their fields in golden light. He also placed them in an atmospheric evocation of the seasons, the inescapable cycles of life and death and work.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: Millet at Web Gallery of Art
Wikimedia Commons
Athenaeum
ARC
Ciudad de la pintura
World Visit Guide
California State University Database
Artliste (FR - Zoomable)
Louvre
Hermitage Museum
A Lost Great Painter, Time magazine
Bio on Wikipedia
Artcyclopedia (museum listings and additional resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Sunday, September 4, 2011
Ernst Fuchs

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:15 pm 
 


Ernst Fuchs is an Austrian painter, printmaker, draftsman, sculptor and architect who was one of the founders of the Vienna School of Fantastic Realism, and remains its most prominently known member.
Like the other members of that school, Fuchs took much of his inspiration from the painting techniques and detailed realism of the early Flemish masters, in particular Jan van Eyck and Jean Fouquet, and Mannerists like Jaques Callot, whose influence you can see in Fuchs’ intense graphics.
He also studied masters like Albrecht Altdorfer, Albrecht Durer and Matthias Grünewald, adopting and reviving their practice of “mischtechnik” (mixed technique), in which the foundation image is painted in egg tempera, over which are laid glazes of oil paint mixed with resin. The effect is one of jewel-like transparency and intense color.
Fuchs applies these techniques to his fantastic interpretations of religious subjects and visionary scenes, filled with lush textures, intricate detail and imaginative sculptural forms (in which I also see the legacy of the Surrealists, in particular Max Ernst).
Fuchs’ work has had a dramatic impact on a subsequent generation of fantastic realists and visionary painters like H.R. Giger, Robert Venosa, Martina Hoffmann, Mati Klarwein, Alex Grey, A. Andrew Gonzalez, Kris Kuksi and others.
In 1972 Fuchs acquired a derelict villa in Hütteldorf which he renovated and transformed into an unique architectural space, and which now serves as the Ernst Fuchs Museum. He also decorated the interiors of other spaces, including the WInter Church of the Parish Church of St. Egyd, Klagenfurt (images above, bottom)
The official Ernst Fuchs site contains a gallery of his paintings, divided into time periods (note that use of the arrows at bottom gives you access to at least one additional page of thumbnails), as well as etchings, sculpture and more.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: http://www.ernstfuchs-zentrum.com, with gallery
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Fantastic Visions
Society for Art of Imagination
Gallerie Ernst Fuchs
Visionary Art Gallery
Absolum.org
Bio on Wikipedia
Wikimedia Commons (architecture)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Saturday, September 3, 2011
Caravaggio and His Followers in Rome

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:58 pm 
 


Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, AKA Caravaggio, notorious bad boy of art, rebellious realist and master of chiaroscuro, spent much of his life, with all of its dramatic ups and downs, in Rome. 
His wild behavior and the scandalous brushes with heresy brought on by his insistence on using unrepentantly grungy commonfolk for his models in religious works was matched only by the astonishing and undeniable force of his abilities as a painter. His influence on other painters was immediate and long lasting.
Organized by the National Gallery of Canada, in cooperation with the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, Caravaggio and His Followers in Rome is an exhibit examining his time in Rome and the impact of his innovations on other artists as diverse as Georges de La Tour, Jusepe de Ribera, Simon Vouet, Artemisia Gentileschi, Gerrit van Honthorst and Peter Paul Rubens.
The exhibition is focused around 10 major paintings by the master, surrounded by thematically related works by followers and others influenced by him.
Unfortunately, neither museum’s site does a good job of telling you about the exhibit. I’ve added some links to reviews below. There is also a video on YouTube that, though accompanied by an inexplicable choice of music, gives a quick walk through of the major pieces. 
For the best reproductions of Caravaggio’s work online, I recommend the Web Gallery of Art. For more see my previous posts on Caravaggio, also listed below, that contain links to other resources. (The other “Caravaggio in Rome” post refers to a different exhibit that took place in Rome.) 
Caravaggio and His Followers in Rome is at the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa until September 11, 2011. It will then be on display at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas from October 16, 2011 to January 8, 2012.


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: Caravaggio and His Followers in Rome, NGC to 9/11/11
Kimbell Art Museum, 10/16/11 - 1/8/12
Video walk through on YouTube
Ottawwa Citizen, also here and here
Macleans
Globe and Mail
Related posts:
Caravaggio
Caravaggio in Rome
Rembrandt vs Caravaggio
Caravaggio’s Supper at Emmaus comes to Chicago

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Friday, September 2, 2011
More Paul Felix

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:56 pm 
 


As I mentioned last year, John Nevarez continues to maintain and add to this unofficial blog for the work of the superb visual development artist Paul Felix. 
The latest additions are a wonderful series of visual notes on perspective, shading, composition and more that are like a classroom in themselves. 
Great stuff.
[Via Scott Altmann (my post here) and Bill Robinson]


Share or bookmark this post:

















Link: http://unofficialpaulfelix.blogspot.com
My previous post on Paul Felix
John Nevarez blog

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






