FEMA: About FEMA
Skip to content




FEMA.gov


FEMA Mobile Site
Contact Us
A-Z Index
FAQs
Español
Additional Languages



Search

 Advanced Search











Blog
Photos
Videos
Email Updates





Home
Plan & Prepare
Recover & Rebuild
Apply for Assistance
Disasters & Maps
FEMA Audiences
About FEMA
News & Media












Social Media


Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Widgets
RSS/DATA
Our Internet Presence







About FEMA
FEMA Leadership

Organization Structure
Contact Us
Employment Opportunities
Grants
Training






Print Preview


About FEMA


What We Do
Who We Are
Strategic and Other Plans
General Contacts
FEMA Brochure



What We Do
Overview FEMA MissionFEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.DISASTER. It strikes anytime, anywhere. It takes many forms -- a hurricane, an earthquake, a tornado, a flood, a fire or a hazardous spill, an act of nature or an act of terrorism. It builds over days or weeks, or hits suddenly, without warning. Every year, millions of Americans face disaster, and its terrifying consequences.On March 1, 2003, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS).DHS Mission Statutory AuthorityRobert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, PL 100-707, signed into law November 23, 1988; amended the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, PL 93-288. This Act constitutes the statutory authority for most Federal disaster response activities especially as they pertain to FEMA and FEMA programs.Homeland Security ActPost Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act (PKEMRA) (PDF 300KB)

					
							
                             		Back To Top

Who We Are
FEMA HistoryAs of September 10, 2011: FEMA has 7,559 employees across the country working to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. FEMA employees work all over the country – at FEMA Headquarters, the ten regional offices, the National Emergency Training Center, Center for Domestic Preparedness/Noble Training Center, and other locations – to support the larger emergency management team.FEMA is not the team, but part of a team. That team includes federal partners, state, tribal and local officials, the private sector, non-profits and faith-based groups, and the general public.FEMA LeadershipNational Advisory CouncilOrganization Structure
Back To Top

Strategic and Other Plans
National Response FrameworkStrategic PlanAnnual Agency Performance Plan
Back To Top

General Contacts
Contact us at:

FEMA
500 C Street S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20472

Or see our "Contact Us" page for more contact information.
Back To Top

FEMA Brochure
(PDF 448KB, TXT 14KB) 
Back To Top


Download Plug-in
Some of the links on this page require a plug-in to view them. Links to the plug-ins are available below.
 Adobe Acrobat (PDF)



Last Modified: Thursday, 29-Sep-2011 10:39:01 EDT




 

Home
Contact Us
Español
Privacy Policy
Important Notices
Accessibility
Download Plug-ins
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
USA.gov
DHS

* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.

Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500Text PREPARE to 43362 (4FEMA). Msg/data rates apply


(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-75853 Step Guide for Assistance






 
