 -   Teasers, Etc.






Home
About
Authors
Teasers
Donate!
Contributors
Author Signup
Affiliates
Resources
FAQs
Contact






 Thank you to our fellow Texan for designing our banner & Twitter avi!
Sign up to write! There's still plenty of time before stories are due!    Sign Up!    Fanfic, original fic, any fandom, one-shots, outtakes, collabs, crossovers...It's up to you what you write!
A Generous Fandom Thank you to all who have donated! So far we've managed to raise

Grab a Blinkie! Just right click and save!
Support us with Twibbon! 
Join Us! This cause is dear to the hearts of many Texans in our fandom who have found ourselves, our friends, and our families affected by the wildfires.  If you call Texas home and would like to be a part of our efforts to help, please let us know so we can list you as a host.  All we ask is that you encourage your readers, your favorite authors, and your fandom friends to contribute stories & donations to help the Texas wildfire victims begin to rebuild.
Texas is still burning 




 
Twitter Updates


 Texas Wildfire News4 Alarm Fire For San Antonio FD Destroys Downtown Historic Building, Damages Hi-RiseDallas city council member urges officials not to forget Berkshire studyLarge Fire Burning East of CraneFire along railroad tracks in OdessaOvernight Wildfire Erupts In Coleman CountyWildfire northwest of AmarilloFire departments offer chance to meet first respondersFires in Harrison CountyTool home destroyed by fireJefferson Parade of Umbrellas to benefit firefighters 



Teasers, Etc.
Click on the title to see the teaser, banner, or summary provided by the generous authors contributing to our compilation.
We’ll be adding to this page as more come in. 
The Assassin by SushiLovesWhitlock
banner by SushiLovesWhitlock

A Beastly Tale: Aftermath by DreamingPoet1988
banner by Christag Banners
All I had ever wanted was to be normal.
But today as I run from danger I wished to be anything but normal, I wished to be stronger, strong enough to save my love strong enough to fight. But no I am running like a coward, leaving my heart and soul to bleed to death in the rain in the middle of the woods.
“You can’t run forever Jasper.” I hear a man say as I suddenly run right into a hard rock that knocks me to the ground.
“I told you not to run.” The man sneers down at me as I stare up at him from my spot on the forest floor. Shocked at how he caught up to me.
Suddenly the forest fills with Edwards cry’s it’s when I look in his direction that my world grows black and the last thought that fills my head is, why did I ever wish to be normal?

Becoming Mr. & Mrs. Hale by idealskeptic
banner by TwistedIn_
“Two inches taller and I could shop for work clothes that didn’t have sparkles and embroidery on them,” Alice muttered, half-buried in a rack of black pants and peering at me helplessly. “This isn’t what I expected here, Jazz. I need two black skirts, two pairs of black pants, and three white dress shirts, all in extra small. Help me, please!”
I found the shirts and one skirt, earning myself a kiss from my wife and a glare from the cashier. “She’s thinks I’m a perv,” I murmured, bending low to Alice’s ear. “Can I manipulate her to leave us alone?”
“You’d better,” Alice whispered back, holding a pair of pants in front of herself just like a human would do. “I’m going to see the cutest dress on the way out and when you grab my arm to keep me from going back, she might call the police on you.”
“I hate shopping,” I sighed wearily, staring at the woman until she looked away and gave me the chance to make her at ease with everything but the fact that store hadn’t closed yet.
With a satisfied sigh, Alice tugged on my hand. “All done. Let’s go get dinner, Jazz.”
It was a perfectly normal thing to say and seemed to help ease the cashier’s fears, although the thing that distracted her most was the fact that Alice flashed her ID when she used a credit card to pay.
I spent the time examining the racks nearest the doors in search of what dress Alice had been talking about – we would be avoiding that door if I played my cards right. And I did, steering her through the door closest to the men’s underwear section as she grumbled about the lost opportunity. “Later, darlin’,” I reminded her as we walked through the wet parking lot. “You have to work in the morning and the mall’s closing.”
She went to the passenger side, tossing me the keys, and stopped. “This is weird. We sound so human.”
Beneath the Thunder by ysarI’m awakened by a loud booming sound, so deafening that in my dream ruled state I wonder for a moment if I’m under attack, if war has broken out while I slept. Something strong and warm wraps around me, and I tense, pushing at it, not sure what I’m trying to escape, but knowing I’m caged. And then I remember where I am, who I’m with, and I illogically feel as if these arms could ward off the still raging storm.
He mumbles something, and I realize he’s slept through the utter destruction outside. I tense, waiting, wondering if he will awaken, wondering what I will say and how I will fumble through my attempts to excuse my being halfway on top of him. The room is dark, save for the glow from the static-filled TV screen, and my greedy fingers betray me, betray him, sneaking up to trace the light over his muscles, the shadows in the cuts of his form. My face flames against his chest as my eyes follow the path of my hand, reading each line and dip and smooth expanse of his skin.
His sleepy fingers trail up my back, rubbing the soft cotton of the oversized tshirt over me, and I feel it bunching, rising up as he pulls. I raise my head and see that his eyes are still closed, his face relaxed and maybe even a little boyish as he slumbers. I move carefully, trying not to redistribute my weight too much as I do, not to disturb him, not to lose this moment that is mine and mine alone. But just as I reach behind me, grasping the hem of the shirt to pull it back down and cover myself, he speaks.
“Stay,” he whispers, his single word an echoing shout in my head. 
Betrayed by Lady Tazz
banner by IllicitWriter
Betrayed: is a futuretake from my E/B Forever and For Always.
Summary: This takes place two years after Forever and For Always ends. Charlie is happily married to Sue and living in the reservation. One day he sees something that will change his life forever. How will he handle the fact that everyone he loves has betrayed him?

Comfortably Numb, Chapter 3 by Kitsushel


Have Mercy Baby by SexyLexiCullen
banner by IllicitWriter

It Wasn't Real by Fallayna

“But… you were all good. You had golden eyes, drank from animals… Loved humans… I don’t understand…”
“There’s a lot you don’t understand, Bella.” I knew that voice anywhere, Esme. “You simply don’t want to remember. Your mind has blocked it out. But I should remind you, yes?”
I nodded enthusiastically and tried to keep the remaining tears at bay.
“Well, everything you think you know, dear, is a lie.”

It's How You Play the Game by CharliDenae

Her hard-earned social status on the line, Alice plays the ‘High School Game’, little does she know, the rules of the game have changed. A little angst, a little humor, a lot of hormones. Rated M. AH.

Journey By nessyness90210
banner by Christag Banners
High school sweethearts Bella and Edward have the best three years they could ask for. Until Edward and his father Carlisle move to Los Angeles. Bella is left heart broken. In order to help her mend, Charlie sends her to New York to recollect herself. There she meets Jacob, a wealthy upper eastsider who shows her how to live again.

The Only Exception By SimplyMrsWhitlock
banner by Christag Banners
The last straw has been pulled. Just when she was ready to confess her feelings to Jake, he confessed his own–he imprinted. Vowing to graduate and never to come back to Washington, Bella spend her last days on a beach she found hiking in La Push where coincidentally Paul spends his time for peace and quiet. He imprints, tying her down to the place she wanted refuge from.

Sentimental Journey by btwnthestacks
banner by Tkegl

Slippery Slope by bornonhalloween
banner by ysar

Someone Like You by babylopez2008
banner by viiolentdelight

Stole by SweetLovinCullen
banner by katmom
“I’m sorry about what Emmett and Jacob did to you this morning.”
Edward thought he’d better talk before Bella thought he was even more of a weirdo. “It’s okay, I’m used to it after fourteen years. I’ve learnt to just be invisible.”
“You shouldn’t have to be invisible Edward.”
“I like it. Being invisible means I get to watch and see things other people are blind to. I know so much about some people it’s unreal.”
Teacher of the Year (Outtake) by DiamondHeart78


Till Death Brings Us Together by IamTheAlleyCat
banner by Christag Banners
Summary: Angel’s death in yet another averted apocalypse was the final blow for Buffy. She moves to Washington DC, trying to find a way to survive without the other half of her soul. Two months later, a serial killer on the lose brings her face to face with FBI Special Agent Booth, a man that could be Angel’s twin brother, but he doesn’t seem to know who she is. Never stop believing in soulmates, even if you have to wait til death brought you together.
Teaser:
She let the overnight bag she was carrying drop on the floor and walked confidently toward him. When she was standing as close as she could without actually touching him, she paused and looked up at him.
“Can I give you a hug?” she asked in a whisper.
His arms wrapped around her before his lips could murmur, “Of course.”
It felt so good, holding her, basking in her scent and her warmth. Sometimes, when he held her tight, he could have sworn he felt his own heart beginning to beat. He buried his nose in her hair and breathed in deeply.
“I’ve missed you,” she whispered.
“I’ve missed you, too,” he answered.
They both knew and heard the words that neither one of them spoke aloud
I love you.
I need you.
I want you.
He took her to her room, the one that was just one door away from his, and tried to quiet down his inner desires. He wanted to touch her, kiss her, caress her. He wanted to taste her in every way possible.
She saw the desire in his brown eyes and felt the heat spread through her body. She had been so cold in the past year since she had last seen him, since she had last kissed him. They rarely spoke, and Angel still hadn’t overcome his aversion to technology, so there were no emails exchanged between the two.
They looked at each other for several long moments, just taking in each other’s presence, and in the next moment, they were locked in a desperate embrace. Both aware that the world might very well end in less than a few days, and neither wanted to waste what probably was their last chance to be together.

Valentine's Day Surprise by lulabelle98
banner by Christag Banners
Spending Valentine’s night alone is never fun. So what happens when Bella bumps into the guy she has a crush on?
You Redeem Me: The Meeting Outtake by anhanninen
banner by IllicitWriter
Just for good measure, I knocked really, really hard one more time. Actually, I pounded. The door flew open and in front of me stood the cutest guy I had ever seen. But he looked a little angry, until his eyes rested on mine and he smiled.
“Esme?” he asked. His voice! It was so… sexy.
“Uh-huh,” I said, wide-eyed and basically speechless.
“You’re not supposed to be here until tomorrow.”
“I… uh, wanted to surprise Eddie.”
He laughed. Did I say something funny? “He’s going to be surprised all right. Come on in.” He opened the door wider for me.
I leaned down to grab my duffle, and he took it from me with a smile. “Thanks,” I mumbled.
He let me in first, and then walked ahead of me. I couldn’t take my eyes off of him. He was probably as tall as Edward, but more muscular. His t-shirt clung to him. He had short blond hair and blue eyes. He was so cute!
“You can make yourself comfortable. Edward’s shift doesn’t end for about another hour,” he told me.
I walked over to the couch and sat down, kicking my flip-flops off. “So, who are you?” I asked.
He smirked. “I’m Carlisle — Edward’s roommate. He hasn’t told you about me?”
“Well, yeah, I just kinda spaced. He does talk about you a lot.”
“Good things, I hope,” he laughed, sitting down on the other side of the couch and grabbing a book.
“Yeah, of course.”
“Well, I was sleeping, but since you’re here, I guess that wouldn’t be very polite.”
“Oh! I’m so sorry. I didn’t know.”
He shook his head. “It’s okay. I needed to get up anyway. I have a shift at eleven tonight.”
“You’re in school with Eddie, right? A medical student?”
I knew he was. Edward told me so, but I wanted to talk to him. I wanted to hear his voice.
“Yes, I am. I’ll be starting my surgical residency soon.”
I nodded. “Cool. So you want to be a surgeon?”
“Yeah, that’s what I want.” He smiled. “Edward said you’re looking into Harvard?”
“Well, that’s my excuse to come, but it’s not like I’ll actually go here. I’m not that smart.”
He cocked his head. “Sure you are. I mean, if Eddie could get in, then I’m sure you can.” He smirked.
“Eddie is a genius. And he lets you call him that, too?”
He laughed and shook his head. “He’ll kill me if he finds out I said that. So don’t tell him.”
I smiled. “I won’t.”
He smiled back and I could feel my cheeks heating up. “So… surprising Edward, what made you think of doing that?”
“Oh, well, I just figured it’d be nice to do. A good surprise when he opened the door. I guess I didn’t think it through, though, because I should have known he’d be at the hospital. I didn’t know what his shift was. I know a few days ago he was on nights, so I assumed he still was.”
“It changes a lot. But don’t worry; he’ll still be surprised when he gets home. You can hide in the closet or something,” he chuckled.
“Jump out and yell ‘surprise!’?”
His laugh was infectious. “Sure, why not.” 
/Untitled/ by MandyLeigh87“I spent the evening on Chat Roulette with a hottie from California,” she said.
“Chat Roulette?” Lauren asked.
I bit down on my pen and glanced up at them from behind my notebook.
“Yeah,” Jessica said with a smile. “It’s this online webcam thing where you get randomly paired up to chat with people.”
“Chat?” Lauren cocked her eyebrow.
“Chat,” Jessica said. “All the celebrities do it. My goal is to find them. And have a little fun along the way.” She winked, making me nauseous and intrigued at the same time. I’d never heard of this thing, but it sounded strange.
Someone cleared their throat beside me and I nearly stumbled over my own feet. I slowly turned my head and felt my heart flutter.  Edward.
He was staring at me through his beautiful glasses. He shuffled his books in his arms and offered me a polite smile.
“Bella,” he said with a nod.
“Edward,” I whispered.
“Studying for that English exam?” He peeked over my shoulder at my notes. I rushed to cover up his name scribbled at the bottom of the paper.
“Yep,” I squeaked. “How was it?
“I had it first hour. Wasn’t too bad. I’m sure you’ll do fine.” He smirked at me and I almost melted into jelly right on the spot. Instead I faceplanted into the door that someone had failed to hold open for me.
“Ouch!” I screamed. My forehead was in pain. My glasses were probably broken, not to mention my nose.
“Shit,” Edward said, rushing to my side. “Are you okay?”
I tried to hold in the tears as I backed away from the door. I spotted the crack in my glasses right away and started panicking because I knew there was no way I’d be able to take this English final without them.
“Fine,” I shrieked, holding onto my books and hightailing it to the nurse’s office. I chanced a look back and saw Edward standing in shock next to the door. I glared at that stupid piece of metal and cursed it for ruining my moment with Edward. We’ll meet again, Door. Possibly with an ax or a blowtorch.

Wanna see your story here?If you’re writing for F4T, click HERE to send us your summary, banner link, or teaser, and we’ll get it posted ASAP!




Home
About
Authors
Teasers
Donate!
Contributors
Author Signup
Affiliates
Resources
FAQs
Contact





designed by createwebsites.pl
Copyrights © 2011


