 -   FAQs






Home
About
Authors
Teasers
Donate!
Contributors
Author Signup
Affiliates
Resources
FAQs
Contact






 Thank you to our fellow Texan for designing our banner & Twitter avi!
Sign up to write! There's still plenty of time before stories are due!    Sign Up!    Fanfic, original fic, any fandom, one-shots, outtakes, collabs, crossovers...It's up to you what you write!
A Generous Fandom Thank you to all who have donated! So far we've managed to raise

Grab a Blinkie! Just right click and save!
Support us with Twibbon! 
Join Us! This cause is dear to the hearts of many Texans in our fandom who have found ourselves, our friends, and our families affected by the wildfires.  If you call Texas home and would like to be a part of our efforts to help, please let us know so we can list you as a host.  All we ask is that you encourage your readers, your favorite authors, and your fandom friends to contribute stories & donations to help the Texas wildfire victims begin to rebuild.
Texas is still burning 




 
Twitter Updates


 Texas Wildfire News4 Alarm Fire For San Antonio FD Destroys Downtown Historic Building, Damages Hi-RiseDallas city council member urges officials not to forget Berkshire studyLarge Fire Burning East of CraneFire along railroad tracks in OdessaOvernight Wildfire Erupts In Coleman CountyWildfire northwest of AmarilloFire departments offer chance to meet first respondersFires in Harrison CountyTool home destroyed by fireJefferson Parade of Umbrellas to benefit firefighters 



FAQs
What is the deadline?
Both stories for the compilation and receipts from donations are due by November 1st, 2011.
What is the minimum donation amount?
Some of the organizations listed have set amounts for donations, but as long as your receipt shows a donation of at least $5, you will receive the compilation of stories.
Does it have to be Twilight fanfiction?
No.  It can be of any other fandom for which the author/creator allows fanfiction OR it can be original fiction — your choice!
Can we post the stories on other sites later?
Yes, but we ask that you wait until January 1st 2012 to do so if you choose.
What is the minimum/maximum length for stories?
Minimum length should be 1500 words.  There is no maximum.  Authors are welcome to write one-shots or even multi-chapter stories.
Can we contribute collaborations?
Of course! The more, the merrier, right?
Can I donate to a different organization than the ones listed?
The organizations listed are just the ones we know of.  If you know of another organization that is assisting people or animals displaced or injured in Texas wildfires, please feel free to donate to them.  Just be sure to send us a link to the donation page so we can add it to our site and encourage others to check it out!
Why are you accepting donations for animals?
This is Texas.  No, we don’t ride horses to work (well, most of us anyway), but our pets and livestock are just as badly affected by the fires as our people are.  As the fires raged at their worst, Twitter and Facebook exploded with pleas for trailers and help evacuating cattle, horses, donkeys, and llamas.  The Bastrop Zoo had to evacuate zebras and monkeys, and several animal shelters had to be emptied as fires approached.  Packing dogs and cats in cars is one thing, but how do you save 43 horses from a small ranch?  What do you do if you make your living raising cattle, and you don’t have enough trucks and trailers to carry them all at once?  Strangers showed up with trailers and offered space on their land to help save larger animals, but feeding and vetting them requires more than just goodwill, and many were found injured after areas burned.
In addition, many homeowners were enjoying a Saturday morning out when the fires first approached, and when they were not allowed back into their neighborhoods to rescue dogs and cats from homes and backyards, emergency personnel did the only thing they could do to give the animals a chance: release them into the neighborhoods.  The pets that managed to survive are showing up with burns and breathing problems, and while efforts are being made to reunite them with their families, many people are still displaced and difficult to track down.
Money is desperately needed to continue housing and caring for the many animals evacuated from and found after the fires, whether they are beloved family pets or the foundation for working ranches.
Where do we send receipts?
Receipts can be emailed to Fandom4Texas@Gmail.com.  Be sure to include your penname or the name by which the fandom knows you if you would like to be included on our Contributors List.
What about the personal information on my receipt?
Feel free to delete anything that gives away your real life name or location if that makes you more comfortable.  As for us, we’re only listing fandom names, not real names of contributors, and only one person has access to your receipt.
Where should we send stories?
Stories should be emailed to Fandom4Texas@Gmail.com.  Be sure to include rating, warning, summary and banner information if applicable.  The confirmation email we sent when you signed up should have more details, or you may contact us with any questions?
When will the compilation be distributed?
We expect it will take a few days, possibly as long as a week after the Nov 1 deadline to get the stories compiled, after which it will be emailed to all story and donation contributors.
Who’s behind the F4T fundraiser?
F4T is a collective effort by Texans in the Twilight fandom.  We’re all affected by the fires in our state, and we’re all part of trying to make a difference for those who’ve lost so much.




Home
About
Authors
Teasers
Donate!
Contributors
Author Signup
Affiliates
Resources
FAQs
Contact





designed by createwebsites.pl
Copyrights © 2011


