Office of the Governor - Rick Perry







RSS Feeds
Contact


















Home
Governor Perry
First Lady
News
Initiatives
Organization
Contact



 
 








Texas Responds
In the midst of one of the most devastating wildfire seasons in Texas history, the state has deployed resources across the state to fight fires and assist those displaced by the flames. Gov. Perry continues to urge all Texans to heed all warnings and cease all outdoor activities that can result in fires.


Read More







Housing For Heroes
Speaking to the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Gov. Perry announced a new $3 million grant program to help veterans buy, build, rehabilitate or rent a home.


Read More







The Texas Way
In San Antonio for the National Council of State Legislatures 2011 Summit, Gov. Perry spoke about how Texas fosters innovation, meets challenges and continues to lead the way in job creation in the United States.


Read More







A New Path To A Degree
Gov. Perry has announced the creation of WGU Texas, an accredited, online university offering degrees in more than 50 areas of study, many of them vital to meeting the demands of the emerging jobs market here in the Lone Star State.


Read More







Important Lawsuit Reform for Texans
Gov. Rick Perry ceremonially signed HB 274, which brings important lawsuit reforms to Texas courts, including implementing a loser pays component for frivolous lawsuits in the state.


Read More







 1 
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 







 Recent News 

Monday, September 12, 2011 • Austin, Texas • Press ReleaseNon-Profit Fund Expands Emergency Hotel Voucher Program for  Fire Victims, Additional Counties Added to Federal Disaster Request
The non-profit Texas Disaster Relief Fund has made additional funding available to provide emergency hotel vouchers for up to seven days for individuals and families who have been displaced by a wildfire in Grimes, Montgomery and Waller counties. Over the weekend, the state requested that the recently approved federal Major Disaster Declaration be expanded to provide individual and public assistance for additional counties, including Montgomery, Grimes and Waller, as well as statewide hazard mitigation for counties that have been affected by wildfires since August 30.

READ »


Monday, September 12, 2011 • Austin, Texas • Press ReleaseStatement by Gov. Rick Perry on Announced Job Losses Due to EPA Rule
The Obama Administration continues to put up road blocks for our nation's job creators by imposing burdensome regulations based on assumptions, not facts, that will result in job losses and increased energy costs with no definite environmental benefit. - Gov. Perry

READ »


Sunday, September 11, 2011 • Austin, Texas • Press ReleaseGov. Perry: Images of September 11th are Forever in Our Minds
Gov. Rick Perry commemorated the 10th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks at a memorial ceremony at the Texas State Cemetery Twin Towers Monument. The governor has also issued a proclamation recognizing September 11th as Texas First Responders Day.
 
  PHOTO »
  VIDEO »
READ »


Sunday, September 11, 2011 • Austin, Texas • ProclamationGov. Perrry Issues Proclamation Recognizing Texas First Responders Day
Gov. Perry noted the importance of taking time to remember those who were killed in the line of duty on September 11th, and to honor the brave men and women who daily answer the call for help in Texas, across our nation and around the world. Texas First Responders Day was created through House Bill 1937 in 2003. 

READ »


Friday, September 09, 2011 • Austin, Texas • Press ReleaseGov. Perry Announces Emergency Hotel Voucher Program for Victims of Bastrop County Fire
Gov. Rick Perry today announced that up to $250,000 from the Texas Disaster Relief Fund will be distributed through Combined Community Action Inc. to provide seven-day emergency hotel vouchers for individuals and families whose homes have been destroyed in the Bastrop County fire. Combined Community Action will also administer flexible assistance cards using up to $350,000 from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs to cover essential expenses for these individuals and families.

READ »


Tuesday, September 06, 2011 • Austin, Texas • Press ReleaseTexas Task Force 1 Deploys to Bastrop County
Texas Task Force 1, the state's elite search team, was deployed to assist local officials and first responders in Bastrop County. With ongoing fires across Texas, the governor also urged all individuals who have been evacuated from their homes to register themselves and their families with the American Red Cross' Safe and Well program. 

READ »












Governor Perry:
Images of September 11th are Forever in Our Minds
View Photo Gallery »
Read the Speech »







Connect & Share


Email Updates


Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Flickr


RSS






Legislative Session
View Actions Taken by Governor »




Bragging Rights
See What Others Are Saying »




Governor's Initiatives
For A Stronger Texas »




Texas Flag Status
Current Status »






Recent Photos




























 





Contact the Governor's Office
Employment
Accessibility Policy
Site Policies
Texas.gov
TRAIL Search


Office of the Governor•P.O. Box 12428•Austin, Texas 78711•(512) 463-2000








