FEMA: Subscribe to Receive Free E-mail Updates
Skip to content




FEMA.gov


FEMA Mobile Site
Contact Us
A-Z Index
FAQs
Español
Additional Languages



Search

 Advanced Search











Blog
Photos
Videos
Email Updates





Home
Plan & Prepare
Recover & Rebuild
Apply for Assistance
Disasters & Maps
FEMA Audiences
About FEMA
News & Media












Social Media


Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Widgets
RSS/DATA
Our Internet Presence







Site Help
Site Map
FOIA
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
RSS
Link to FEMA
Federal Register Notices







Print Preview


Subscribe to Receive Free E-mail Updates


 Sign up via our free e-mail subscription service to receive notifications when new information is available. With a subscription profile, you automatically receive updates without having to return to the website and check for changes.
How to Subscribe
If you are interested in receiving information from FEMA, please subscribe (above) and select from our list of subscription options.
Pages throughout our site also feature an "E-mail me when this page is updated" button. Clicking on that button will allow you to subscribe to updates for that particular page.
You may select how often you wish to be notified (immediately, daily, weekly, or monthly). Please note that the topic you select may not be updated that frequently, depending on the topic.
How to Change or Cancel Your Subscription
 Visit our free e-mail subscription service page to change or cancel your subscription at any time, or to update your subscriber profile. This option is also offered to you in all of the e-mail updates you receive.
Privacy Policy
E-mail updates are a free service provided by FEMA. Your e-mail address will only be used to deliver the information you've requested and to allow you to access your account. For more information, please read FEMA.gov's Privacy Policy.
Prevent e-mails from being marked "SPAM" or "JUNK"
In order to ensure that you receive your subscription e-mails and announcements from FEMA, please add us to your contact list, adjust your spam settings, or follow the instructions from your e-mail provider on how to prevent our e-mails from being marked "Spam" or "Junk Mail."



Last Modified: Monday, 03-Jan-2011 09:21:09 EST




 

Home
Contact Us
Español
Privacy Policy
Important Notices
Accessibility
Download Plug-ins
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
USA.gov
DHS

* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.

Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500


(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-75853 Step Guide for Assistance






 
