FEMA: Federal Disaster Assistance Broadened to Include Five More Texas Counties

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






Federal Disaster Assistance Broadened to Include Five More Texas Counties 

Release Date: September 14, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-006

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- People in Colorado, Houston, Leon, Travis and Williamson counties in Texas whose homes or businesses were damaged or destroyed as a result of the recent wildfires can now register for federal and state disaster assistance.
Just days after a major disaster declaration was declared for Bastrop County, Individual Assistance (IA) is also being made available to these additional counties; this follows a review of damage assessments by officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Texas Division of Emergency Management (TDEM).
"We strongly encourage residents in all six counties -- Bastrop, Colorado, Houston, Leon, Travis and Williamson -- to register as soon as possible for federal disaster assistance," said Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) Kevin L. Hannes. "The sooner you register, the sooner you can possibly receive federal and state disaster aid."
Disaster assistance for eligible individuals may include:

Grants to help pay for temporary housing and home repairs to make a home habitable
Grants for serious disaster-related expenses not covered by insurance
Low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) for homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private nonprofit organizations to cover losses not fully compensated by insurance. 

Residents in Bastrop, Colorado, Houston, Leon, Travis and Williamson counties can register for assistance online at www.disasterassistance.gov , via smart phone at m.fema.gov or by also calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. If you use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. Specialists are available by phone from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. local time seven days a week.
Preliminary Damage Assessments (PDAs) in other Texas counties continue; additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the state and warranted by the results of the damage assessments.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Thursday, 15-Sep-2011 10:32:24




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











