FEMA: Three Easy Ways to Register for Federal Assistance

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






Three Easy Ways to Register for Federal Assistance 

Release Date: September 12, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-003

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- People in Bastrop County, Texas, affected by the recent wildfire are urged to take advantage of three easy ways to register for federal assistance; you may be eligible for aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA).
Homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and nonprofit organizations can:

register online at www.disasterassistance.gov; 
register via smart phone at m.fema.gov;
register via telephone by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. If you use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice.

"Survivors of the Bastrop County fire could be eligible to receive grants to help pay for uninsured temporary housing needs, essential home repairs and other serious disaster-related expenses," said Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) Kevin L. Hannes. "But you won't know if you're eligible until you register. That's why it's so important to do that now."
Bastrop residents should register with FEMA even if they have insurance. FEMA cannot duplicate insurance payments, but under-insured applicants may receive help after their insurance claims have been settled.
Registering with FEMA is required for federal aid, even if the person has registered with another disaster relief organization such as the American Red Cross, local officials or churches. Registrants with FEMA must use the name that appears on their Social Security card. Applicants will be asked to provide:

Social Security number
Address of the damaged home or apartment
Description of the damage
Information about insurance coverage
A current contact telephone number
An address where you can get mail
Bank account and routing numbers if you want direct deposit of any financial assistance.

FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Monday, 12-Sep-2011 16:33:30




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











