FEMA: State/FEMA Disaster Recovery Center Opening in Bastrop County

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






State/FEMA Disaster Recovery Center Opening in Bastrop County 

Release Date: September 12, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-004

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- Survivors of the Bastrop County wildfires can meet face to face with state and federal disaster recovery specialists in the town of Bastrop beginning tomorrow.
Experts from the state of Texas, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) will be at a Disaster Recovery Center (DRC); they will be ready to help survivors get the registration process started and inform them about a range of disaster assistance programs that may be available to them.
The center replaces a Mobile Disaster Registration Intake Center (MDRC) that was open for a few days in Bastrop County.
The center is located at:
Bastrop High School 9th Grade Academy1602 Hill StreetBastrop, Texas 78602Hours: Monday to Saturday, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m.
"It's tough to recover from a disaster that hit as hard as the Bastrop fires," said Deputy State Coordinating Officer (SCO) Shari Ramirez-MacKay of the Texas Division of Emergency Management (TDEM). "Survivors who visit the center just might find there is more help available to eligible people in Bastrop County than they may expect."
"There are all types of grants available for eligible residents; you should come on down to the center to find out what you're eligible for. It's a place where you can talk face to face with experts who can help you with everything, including the registration process," said Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) Kevin L. Hannes. "We especially want to remind everyone how important it is to register -- you won't know if you qualify for federal disaster aid until you take that first step and register."
There are three ways to register: online at www.disasterassistance.gov, via web-enabled phone at m.fema.gov, or by calling FEMA toll-free at 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 1-800-462-7585. If you use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. Specialists are available by phone from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. local time seven days a week.
Follow FEMA tweets about the Texas disaster at www.twitter.com/femaregion6. Other online resources are blog.fema.gov, www.facebook.com/fema and www.youtube.com/fema.
Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status. If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-FEMA (3362). For TTY call 800-462-7585.
The mission of the Texas Division of Emergency Management, Texas Department of Public Safety, is to support the citizens of Texas and local jurisdictions as they plan for, respond to, recover from and mitigate the impacts of all hazards, emergencies and disasters. For more information, see: www.txdps.state.tx.us/dem.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Tuesday, 13-Sep-2011 11:02:45




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











