FEMA: Download Plug-Ins
Skip to content




FEMA.gov


FEMA Mobile Site
Contact Us
A-Z Index
FAQs
Español
Additional Languages



Search

 Advanced Search











Blog
Photos
Videos
Email Updates





Home
Plan & Prepare
Recover & Rebuild
Apply for Assistance
Disasters & Maps
FEMA Audiences
About FEMA
News & Media












Social Media


Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Widgets
RSS/DATA
Our Internet Presence







Site Help
Site Map
FOIA
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
RSS
Link to FEMA
Federal Register Notices







Print Preview


Download Plug-Ins


Some content on the FEMA.gov web site may require certain software and/or plug-ins to be viewable. Plug-ins are software that work with your browser to provide capability the browser may not otherwise have. Most software vendors offer versions of their plug-ins for each computer platform type (i.e., Windows, Macintosh, Linux, etc...)We are providing the following links to these plug ins so our viewers may access information using these products stored on our website. FEMA does not endorse any non-government websites, companies or applications.
Excel (*.xls)
 Download the free Excel 2003 Viewer to open, view, and print Excel workbooks.
Flash Player (*.swf)
 Files with this extension require the Flash Player.  You can download (free) and find guidance on how to install and use it from the Adobe Web site.
Portable Document Format (*.pdf)
 Files with this extension require a PDF viewer. You can download (free) and find guidance on how to install and use it from the Adobe Web site.
PowerPoint (*.ppt)
 Download the free PowerPoint Viewer to view full-featured presentations created in PowerPoint 97 and later versions.
Windows Media Player (*.wmv, *.asx)
 Files with these extensions require the Windows Media Player.  You can download (free) and find guidance on how to install and use it from the Microsoft Web site.
WinZip (*.zip)
 Zip files are single files, sometimes called "archives," that contain one or more compressed files. Files with this extension require a compression utility application, such as WinZip, to open and extract them.  Mac OS X users should not require additional software to open and extract Zip files.
Word (*.doc)
 Download the free Word 2003 Viewer to view, print and copy Word documents.



Last Modified: Monday, 09-Nov-2009 10:25:47 EST




 

Home
Contact Us
Español
Privacy Policy
Important Notices
Accessibility
Download Plug-ins
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
USA.gov
DHS

* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.

Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500


(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-75853 Step Guide for Assistance






 
