FEMA: FEMA Transitional Sheltering Assistance Available for Bastrop County, Texas Evacuees With Inaccessible or Unlivable Homes

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






FEMA Transitional Sheltering Assistance Available for Bastrop County, Texas Evacuees With Inaccessible or Unlivable Homes 

Release Date: September 11, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-002

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), at the request of the state of Texas, has activated its Transitional Sheltering Assistance (TSA) initiative, which allows eligible Texas wildfire evacuees from Bastrop County, who cannot return to their homes, to stay in hotels or motels until more suitable housing accommodations are available.
This federal assistance is intended to provide a place to stay for a longer period of time for evacuees whose neighborhoods are not accessible or whose houses have been destroyed. The initial period of assistance is from Sept. 11, 2011, to Oct. 10, 2011. However, this federal program will not reimburse applicants for previously incurred hotel expenses. Applicants are responsible for their own meals and for any lodging costs above the authorized allowance. The state of Texas earlier announced programs, which are listed below, that may supplement federal TSA.
"To be eligible to receive this federal assistance you must register with FEMA," said Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) Kevin L. Hannes. "Keep in mind the TSA initiative is only a temporary fix. We are working diligently with our state and local partners to develop a long-term housing solution to help people until their homes and communities are repaired or rebuilt. But, again, you must register with FEMA to be able to benefit from this short-term aid."
"We are encouraging wildfire evacuees to learn how state and federal programs can help them get through this very difficult period," said Deputy State Coordinating Officer (SCO) Shari Ramirez-MacKay. "We want to do everything we can to provide assistance to residents whose homes have been destroyed or cannot yet return to their neighborhoods."
You can register for FEMA assistance online at www.disasterassistance.gov or via smart phone at m.fema.gov. Applicants may also call 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. If you use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice.
Eligible evacuees must fit the following criteria:

FEMA must be able to verify the identity of the evacuee; 
The primary residence of the evacuee must be in one of the counties that has been designated a disaster area; and
The primary residence is inaccessible or unlivable due to damage or lack of power. 

TSA allows eligible individuals or families to stay in a hotel or motel for a limited time and have the cost of the room and taxes paid directly to the hotel by FEMA. Meals, telephone calls and other incidental charges are not covered.
The state earlier announced that up to $250,000 from the non-profit Texas Disaster Relief Fund will be distributed through Combined Community Action Inc. to provide seven-day emergency hotel vouchers to families whose homes have been destroyed by the Bastrop fire. The fund is intended to supplement - not duplicate -- resources provided by FEMA, private insurance companies and non-profit organizations.
The Texas Disaster Relief Fund gives Texans the opportunity to donate money directly to Texas communities struck by disaster, and donations may be made by calling 1-866-463-7982, or view: www.texasdisasterrelieffund.org for more information. Combined Community Action is also administering flexible assistance cards using up to $350,000 in federal funding from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs to cover essential expenses for individuals who meet certain federal income requirements.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Monday, 12-Sep-2011 16:29:51




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











