lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2005 » August






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Wednesday, August 31, 2005
SketchCrawl

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:45 pm 
 


Enrico Casarosa is a storyboard artist for Pixar. He is also a character designer and comics artist. You can browse through his portfolio which includes sketches, character designs, backgrounds, storyboards, figure drawing and comics. He has a webcomic called Haiku 5-7-5.   
At one point, after a “pubcrawl” with some friends, he got a notion put together his sketching stuff and devote a day to a “SketchCrawl”, spending the day wandering around San Francisco sketching until he ran out of day. (Here’s his description of coming up with the idea.) The results of his day of sketching are posted here.  
He liked the experience so much he repeated it and collected the drawings as a book. He then expanded the idea to organized “Worldwide SketchCrawls”, inviting other artists to join in on a particular day and “sketch till you crawl”. He created a site devoted to the SketchCrawls that features bulletin boards for discussing the events and planning new ones. What a great idea.
Enrico also has a new blog, often devoted to the SketchCrawls.


Link: http://sketchcrawl.com/
Site Quirks: Enrico Casarosa site navigation is a bit inconsistent and links jump back and forth between three or more servers. SketchCrawl site is a little more consistent, but still jumps to another server (and different navigation) without warning. Keep looking around.

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration,Sketching,Webcomics   |   1 Comment »


Tuesday, August 30, 2005
Michel Gagné

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:07 am 
 


Michel Gagne has been a concept artist for films like “The Iron Giant” and the “Star Wars: Clone Wars” animated series. He has also illustrated children’s books, written and drawn comics, done artwork in various mediums including sculpture, designed toys and created animated shorts in Flash. Best of all, though, he draws wonderfully twisted creatures. 
The site has a large gallery selection  (even if the images themselves are somewhat small) that gives a good cross-section of his work. Click through the rest of the site, there’s lots of stuff that’s not immediately available in the main navigation.
For example, there is a full (if small) reproduction of Inner Sanctum, his beautiful 17 page story for the Flight 2 anthology.


Site Quirks: Navigation is scattered and inconsistent.  Gallery has awkward click-and-click-back navigation, interspersed with short connected sequences that don't lead into the next section. It's  easy to miss stuff.
Link: http://www.gagneint.com/

Posted in:  Comics,Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Monday, August 29, 2005
Flesk Publications

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:24 am 
 


Flesk is a small publishing house that has issued wonderful collections of work from two of the best pen and ink illustrators in history: Joseph Clement Coll and Franklin Booth. Both are extraordinary in their own way. 
The site contains small galleries of both artists’ work. The work is reproduced at a smaller size than you might like, but consider it a taste. If you like pen and ink drawing but are not familiar with these two artists, you owe it to yourself to check them out.
Flesk is also publishing collections from contemporary comics artists Mark Schultz and Steve Rude.
Check both the Galleries and the Publications sections for reproductions of the art.


Link: http://www.fleskpublications.com/

Posted in:  Comics,Drawing,Illustration   |   1 Comment »


Friday, August 26, 2005
Nigel in Europe

Posted by Charley Parker at 4:23 pm 
 

OK. I’ll say right off that I love travel sketches. These are some nice ones, along with more finished paintings, created by a young artist from California as he made his way across Europe in a VW camper. Includes a journal of his travels, photos and some studio work.
 


Link: http://www.nigelineurope.com/
Site Quirks: Home page JavaScript forces your browser to resize and reposition. Site is in frames.

Posted in:  Drawing,Painting,Sketching   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, August 25, 2005
copper

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:31 pm 
 


Kazu Kibuishi’s   charming, wistful, and deceptively simple series of single page web comics. A boy an his (talking) dog  drift through various settings, real or imagined,  while musing on a variety of thoughts. Sort of Calvin and Hobbes meet Little Nemo, with emphasis on the latter.  The strips are beautifully drawn and colored. Read one of the recent ones to see how beautiful they are, then scroll to the bottom and read them all from the earliest. When you’re done and dying for more, explore the rest of the Bolt City site. 
There is also a copper strip on the preview for Flight Comics.


Link: www.boltcity.com/copper
Site Quirks: Navigation is a bit scattered and inconsistent. Keep nosing around.

Posted in:  Comics,Webcomics   |   2 Comments »


Wednesday, August 24, 2005
Ryan Church

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:17 pm 
 


Ryan Church is a Senior Art Director at ILM and was a Concept Design Supervisor for Star Wars Episode 2 and Episode 3. There are lots of eye-candy concept pieces for those movies on the site. As good as his professional concept art is (and it is very good indeed), many of my favorites here are from his “Personal” gallery. For those into digital painting, check out the FAQ, in which he describes many of his digital tools and even offers some of his Painter brushes for download.


Link: www.ryanchurch.com/

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting,Tools and Techniques   |   Comments »


Tuesday, August 23, 2005
The Cartoon Bank

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:57 pm 
 


This is The New Yorker’s online presence for their enormous repository of cartoons. You can search by topic or by cartoonist and browse online through hundreds of cartoons. Yes, the site is very commercial and exists mainly to hawk their multiple lines of prints, t-shirts, et al, but the cartoons are there, large enough to read, whenever you need a little sophisticated absurdity.
If that isn’t enough, there are the occasionally wonderful New Yorker covers, viewable slightly larger than the cartoons. Unfortunately, there doesn’t seem to be any sign of the often great little spot illustrations that have brightened the magazine’s pages over the years. Some of the original art is for sale, although they don’t quote prices on the site.
Of course, if you’re really into New Yorker cartoons, you have the book.


Link: http://www.cartoonbank.com/
Site Quirks: Awkward navigation. You have to find you way around the merchandising to get to the cartoons.

Posted in:  Cartoons,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Monday, August 22, 2005
Art Renewal Center

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:25 pm 
 


I decided my first post for this weblog would be ARC. 
This site is just amazing. The heart of it is an enormous virtual museum of realist and representational art  filled with high-resolution images of thousands of paintings (as well as some drawings).
Browse through the Museum (online galleries), which you can sort by artist’s name, nationality or dates. The vast array  of monitor-filling high-res images are sometimes accompanied by super-high-res versions that let you see details you can’t see in most book or poster reproductions. 
The site is somewhat clouded by its emphasis on art politics and its “Philosophy”, basically a constant rail against modernism that takes on an air of importance and exclusionary doctrine that starts to sound like… well, like the arrogant, exclusionary art-establishment modernists themselves. ARC champions 19th century academic art, once the art establishment, now out of favor, against the current modernists, once out of favor, now the art establishment. (Sigh.) Same as it ever was.
Anyway, don’t let that (or their incessant, inexplicable attempts to elevate William Bouguereau to demi-god status) get in the way of the art.  The art is spectacular. The art is amazing. Any minor gripes I might have fall by the wayside in light of what they’ve accomplished. ARC is a mind-opening, eye-dazzling online collection. 
The site also includes a gallery of selected modern realists, a listing of ateliers (studios and schools) of modern realists,  and many other resources for anyone interested in representational art.
Warning – be prepared to spend hours feeding your eyeballs once you start.


Site Quirks: Awkward drop-down navigation, lots of huge scrolling pages, often confusingly arranged. If you're not careful, you'll step in the philosophy.
Link: http://www.artrenewal.org

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Online Museums   |   4 Comments »







Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






