Real Time News - powered by FeedBurner
&



Real Time News

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Real Time News delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Jets Vs. Cowboys: Tony Romo Falters As Dallas Falls


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 12:24:27 +0000
Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo celebrates after throwing a three-yard touchdown pass to Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Dez Bryant during the first half of an NFL football game between the Cowboys and New York Jets, Sunday, Sept.
With the game tied at 24, the Cowboys had a chance for a winning drive with 59 seconds left, but Tony Romo was intercepted on the first play by Darrelle Revis, who returned it 20 yards to Dallas' 34. Four plays later, Folk kicked the go-ahead field
It started with a Tony Romo miscue as Dallas stood just feet away from recapturing its 14-point lead. But the Jets defense had other ideas as Romo coughed up the ball, turning it over at the most inopportune moment. It was the first of a series of
Witten, 29, is coming off a 94-catch, 1002-yard season in 2010 in which he also had a career-high nine touchdowns while playing in only parts of seven games with Tony Romo, whose season ended last year because of a broken collarbone.
With the game tied at 24, the Cowboys had a chance for a winning drive with 59 seconds left, but Tony Romo was intercepted on the first play by Darrelle Revis, who returned it 20 yards to Dallas' 34. Four plays later, Folk kicked the go-ahead field

Related posts:Tony Romo takes blame as Cowboys blow lead
Dallas Cowboys 2011 Season Preview
Tony Romo, runner-up past two years, eyes first win at Tahoe




Witten signs 5-year contract extension


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 12:24:20 +0000
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ — Dallas Cowboys cornerback Orlando Scandrick will miss 3-4 weeks with an ankle injury suffered in Sunday's season-opening loss to the New York Jets, according to owner and general manager Jerry Jones. "We didn't get a good enough
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ — Dallas Cowboys cornerback Orlando Scandrick will miss 3-4 weeks with an ankle injury suffered in Sunday's season-opening loss to the New York Jets, according to owner and general manager Jerry Jones. "We didn't get a good enough
Although the Dallas Cowboys have long been known as "America's Team," the sentimental favorite tonight may very well be the Jets as the entire world turns toward New York today to remember the tragic events of September
The veteran tight end, already fifth on the Dallas Cowboys' all-time receiving list, caught six passes for 110 yards Sunday night, just after signing a five-year contract extension worth $37 million with $19 guaranteed. Witten, 29, had two years left
Who: New York Jets vs. Dallas Cowboys When: 8:20 p.m. ET Where: MetLife Stadium, East Rutherford, NJ Media: TV – NBC, Radio – 1050 AM ESPN Radio, Sirius – 93, Sirius XM – XM 226, Internet Audio – NFL Fieldpass.

Related posts:Coach Tom Coughlin signs a contract extension through 2012 with the New York Giants
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones says team has cap room to make whatever roster moves they want
Jones: Cowboys can make whatever deals they want




Tony Romo takes blame as Cowboys blow lead


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 11:24:17 +0000
The first was a 42-yard reception on a Tony Romo pass, taking the team from their own 41-yard line to the Jets' 17-yard line. The drive stalled a bit on the next five plays, but Romo again found Dez Bryant, this time for a
IRVING, Texas — Depending on who you're talking to at the Ozarka machine, Tony Romo is either the Dallas Cowboys' best hope of making the playoffs or their biggest impediment. If there's a more polarizing player at his position, his name escapes me at
By Jon Saraceno, USA TODAY The quixotic story line of Tony Romo, the small-school draft reject who defied odds to quarterback "America's Team," lost its romance some time ago. Even Dallas Cowboys fans are on edge regarding the regularly skewered
He was long on a fade route to Austin in the end zone and fired a pass at Bryant's feet under pressure. But Romo couldn't sustain that perfection for 60 minutes — and the Cowboys open the season 0-1 as a result. Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo is 3-2 in
So you can take what I'm about to say with that grain of salt, or you can put my homerism behind and read this with an open mind: Despite the 27-24 loss to the New York Jets, I would much rather have Tony Romo as my

Related posts:Tony Romo, runner-up past two years, eyes first win at Tahoe
Kurt Warner: ‘Tony Romo’s a Top-10 quarterback’ who can win Super Bowl
Healthy Romo returns to Cowboys a better leader; star quarterback also has better appreciation




Andy Whitfield, Star of 'Spartacus' Series, Dies at 39


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 11:24:11 +0000
By Tim Janson September 06, 2011 When lead actor Andy Whitfield was diagnosed with Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma, the second season of Spartacus: Blood and Sand, was put on hold and instead Starz opted to tell a six episode prequel to the events of the first
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Andy Whitfield, the 39-year-old star of the cable series "Spartacus: Blood and Sand," has died. Manager Sam Maydew says Whitfield died Sunday of non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Sydney, Australia. Whitfield's wife Vashti in a statement
Entertainment News and Headlines From ABC News Radio.
Andy Whitfield, the star of 'Spartacus: Blood and Sand' on Starz has died. He was 39. He was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma last March 2011 which delayed the production of season two of Spartacus. RIP.
Sad news for fans of Starz's series Spartacus: Blood and Sand; Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield died yesterday of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The actor was diagnosed last year as he prepared to tackle the second season of Spartacus. (EW) Cyndi Lauper pulled a

Related posts:Starz on Andy Whitfield's death: He was 'a champion'
'Spartacus' star Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39
'Spartacus' star Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39




'Spartacus' star Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 10:25:18 +0000
Andy Whitfield, who starred on the Starz show, Spartacus: Blood and Sand, died today of non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Sydney, Australia. He was 39.
Whitfield died Sunday in Sydney, Australia, 18 months after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, manager Sam Maydew told the Associated Press. "On a beautiful sunny Sydney spring morning, surrounded by his family, in the arms of his loving wife,
Whitfield died Sunday in Sydney, Australia, 18 months after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, manager Sam Maydew told the Associated Press. "On a beautiful sunny Sydney spring morning, surrounded by his family, in the arms of his loving wife,
Hockey Fights Cancer, a joint charitable initiative of the National Hockey League and the NHL Players Association, joined forces with the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (LLS) during the 2010-11 season to take a shot at pediatric cancer.
Andy Whitfield, who played the title role in the hit cable series "Spartacus: Blood and Sand," has died at age 39, according to representatives and family. Whitfield died Sunday in Sydney, Australia, 18 months after he was

Related posts:'Spartacus' star Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39
Starz on Andy Whitfield's death: He was 'a champion'
Alisa Kleybanova battling Hodgkin’s lymphoma




JENNI MURRAY'S DUKAN DIET: Calorie counting isn't for me – I'd kid myself a …


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 10:25:10 +0000

The so-called and trending Dukan Diet and is the secret to Frenchâ€™s good health and great body. This diet was developed and introduced by a French doctor named Pierre Dukan in 2000, and since then, itâ€™s become
Cycle 1:The place phase one in the Dukan diet regime is called the step the The atkins diet diet plan describes it as the stage Even though the intention of the earliest period is comparable (to tone down body mass a great
By Jenni Murray Last September, Jenni Murray weighed 19st, but since starting the high-protein, low-carb Dukan diet she has lost 5st. In this fortnightly column, the broadcaster charts her dieting ups and downs There I was, planning to get stuck
as with any other high-protein, low-carb/fat diets, the Dukan diet menu.

Related posts:South Beach Diet has new owner
Pa. needs to go on a diet
Healthy diet can mean healthy dose of success on field of play




Rex to Rob: 'See you in the Super Bowl'


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 09:24:34 +0000
Here is the transcript of Rex Ryan's Friday news conference, courtesy of the New York Jets. First off, there are three changes in the injury report. Mark Brunell and John Conner fully practiced today, so they are full participants.
In a moment of seriousness during a ceremony honoring the 10th anniversary of 9/11 ahead of the Sunday Night Football matchup between the New York Jets and Dallas Cowboys, Rex Ryan popped onto television screens
Rex Ryan has issued a challenge to all naysayers. “Put your negative comments out there,”  If you ask Ryan, there's no doubt what his aggressive attacking-style defense will accomplish this season. Or any season, for that matter. He talked
By April MacIntyre Sep 12, 2011, 5:33 GMT “It was offense, defense and special teams that got outplayed, not just the quarterback position.” – Tony Dungy on the Colts Green Bay Packers wide receiver Jordy Nelson (R) attempts to escape the tackle of
Rex Ryan wanted this one badly for the New York area — and his Jets delivered. But it was far from easy. Nick Folk kicked a 50-yard By The Associated Press A.

Related posts:Rex to Rob: 'See you in the Super Bowl'
Late turnovers help Rex win battle of Ryans
Late turnovers help Rex win battle of Ryans




Plaxico Burress' proudest moment after touchdown catch in Jets win is handing …


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 09:24:19 +0000
New York Jets wide receiver Plaxico Burress hadn't played in a regular season NFL game in nearly three years, but on Sunday night he already has his first touchdown pass since 2008. Burress didn't have his first reception in
By Kevin Gleason Points to ponder while wondering why Plaxico Burress continues to act like someone else took a Glock into the Latin Quarter and shot him that night. Burress got a lousy sentence paved by a grandstanding mayor.
Appearing in his first game since November 16, 2008, Plaxico Burress reeled in four catches for 72 yards and a touchdown in New York's Week 1 win over Dalla.
Plaxico Burress Trashes Eli Manning, Tom Coughlin, And Giants Fans In An Explosive Interview  Plaxico Burress has some harsh words for everyone associated with the Giants in an upcoming interview in Men's Journal.
By Jenny Vrentas/The Star-Ledger William Perlman/The Star-LedgerDallas Cowboys defensive back Bryan McCann can't stop Jets wide receiver Plaxico Burress as.

Related posts:Jets' Plaxico Burress shares key TD catch against Cowboys with his son
Ex-Giants star receiver Plaxico Burress signs with Jets
NFL Roundup: Burress sparks Jets win over Bengals




NEW vs USED: A Hyundai Equus vs. BMW 750i


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 08:24:14 +0000
By the Numbers By Chris Paukert RSS feed Our 2011 Hyundai Equus long-termer continues to pile on the miles in the effortless fashion that one expects of a premium sedan. August's main outing was a weeklong stint in the
By the Numbers By Chris Paukert RSS feed Our 2011 Hyundai Equus long-termer continues to pile on the miles in the effortless fashion that one expects of a premium sedan. August's main outing was a weeklong stint in the
Hyundai has introduced a September 2011 Specialty lease program on their flagship sedan the Equus. The $739/monthly payment immediately took me by surprise. Equus list pricing is $58900 for the Signature Edition and $65400 for the Ultimate.
On the 2011 Hyundai Equus, selecting a radio station preset requires 5 steps. Other Talk.
When it comes to the battle of large luxury sedans, a newcomer has joined in form of the Hyundai Equus. Featuring all of the specifications of cars with six-figure price tags, there is no denying it has tremendous value for dollar.

Related posts:Hyundai CEO explains why no more free iPads for Equus
Hyundai is rated No. 1 in brand loyalty
Summary Box: Hyundai profit soars on sales




Md. dedicates 9/11 memorial at Baltimore's World Trade Center


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 08:24:08 +0000
NEW YORK, NY – SEPTEMBER 11: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visits the 9/11 memorial during the tenth anniversary ceremonies of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center site,
Ten years after the attacks that changed American life, the World Trade Center site is a memorial, and the need to mourn is being eclipsed by the need to honor the memories of the nearly 3000 people killed. Children of those lost, some still in the
Wearing a suit and 9/11 Memorial cap, the music vet strummed his guitar and sang a moving rendition of "The Sound of Silence". As Paul performed the song, footage of people in the World Trade Center site crying, embracing and singing along him is
Ten years after the attacks that changed American life, the World Trade Center site is a memorial, and the need to mourn is being eclipsed by the need to honor the memories of the nearly 3000 people killed. Children of those lost, some still in the
BY ELISHA ANDERSON People gather round a steel remnant from the World Trade Center to look and take photos after it was unveiled during a 9/11 remembrance ceremony and memorial dedication at the Birmingham Fire Department in Birmingham, Mich., Sunday,

Related posts:Job Stoppage at World Trade Center Site; Memorial Unaffected
Finally, World Trade Center rises from ground zero
NBC's Twitter handle hacked, spreads false Ground Zero attack information




Jets' Plaxico Burress shares key TD catch against Cowboys with his son


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 07:24:15 +0000
In an interview with Men's Journal, Plaxico Burress managed to rip nearly everyone in the Giants organization, from GM Jerry Reese to Tom Coughlin to Eli Manning. To say he sounds petty and stupid would be an
Plaxico Burress has taken a page right out of LeBron James' playbook. “What are you doing now?” the Jets' receiver asks those who took pleasure in his prison stint. “You still mad at your job? You still angry about your life?"
Plaxico Burress spoke with GlobalGrind about violence. After forty eight Plaxico cannot change his past, but he can use his mistakes to try and reach others to.
Plaxico Burress delivered when the Jets needed him most and helped spark their incredible comeback win over the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday night.
In an interview with Men's Journal, Plaxico Burress managed to rip nearly everyone in the Giants organization, from GM Jerry Reese to Tom Coughlin to Eli Manning. To say he sounds petty and stupid would be an

Related posts:Jets sign WR Plaxico Burress
Plaxico Burress gets back on field at Jets camp — even if only to sneak in a few routes
Plaxico Burress Signs With Jets




Rex to Rob: 'See you in the Super Bowl'


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 07:24:08 +0000
Rex Ryan Probably Didn't Mean To Encourage Fan Violence, But That's Not The Point. Yesterday, Rex Ryan, the annoying and loud coach of TBL's New York Jets said something outrageous that got people up in arms. I know. The shock is still
Rex Ryan wanted this one badly for the New York area — and his Jets delivered. But it was far from easy. Nick Folk kicked a 50-yard By The Associated Press A.
The brash head coach Rex Ryan of the New York Jets has never been one to shy away from the media, or saying anything that wasn't on his mind. When the Jets found themselves on the behind the scene series Hard Knocks
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — The annual preseason game between the New York Jets and New York Giants received a jolt late Thursday, with Rex Ryan claiming the Jets are the superior team. Ryan also fired back at Giants defensive end Justin
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — The annual preseason game between the New York Jets and New York Giants received a jolt late Thursday, with Rex Ryan claiming the Jets are the superior team. Ryan also fired back at Giants defensive end Justin

Related posts:Jets recognize Sanchez as leader on field, but Super Bowl hopes depend on QB’s improvement
Ryan says this Jets version is his best
Plax on playing Giants: ‘Another football game’




NFL Scores Week 1: Steelers Vs. Ravens


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 06:24:14 +0000
By John Boyle Special to the Kitsap Sun (Associated Press) Seattle Seahawks wide receiver Doug Baldwin runs past San Francisco 49ers cornerback Carlos Rogers as he scores on a 55-yard touchdown reception during Sunday's game. SAN FRANCISCO — Less than
For more on the Texans, check out, Battle Red Blog. For more on the Colts, head over to Stampede Blue. Stay tuned to our NFL Week 1 StoryStream for scores and updates from around the NFL, and bookmark SB Nation NFL for regular news and analysis.
Billed as one of the week's top games, the Baltimore Ravens won the first round this season in their bitter rivalry with the Pittsburgh Steelers.
Billed as one of the week's top games, the Baltimore Ravens won the first round this season in their bitter rivalry with the Pittsburgh Steelers.
Cam Newton set a rookie record for most passing yards in a Week 1 debut, but his Panthers fell to the Arizona Cardinals.

Related posts:Steelers Vs. Ravens Score: Anquan Boldin Puts Baltimore In Front Instantly
NFL: Pittsburgh Steelers @ Baltimore Ravens – live!
Rex Grossman scores first in quarterback battle as Redskins top Steelers in preseason, 16-7




Real world test: What if your Nissan Leaf EV battery dies?


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 06:24:09 +0000
Batteries for the Nissan Leaf. (Courtesy Nissan North America Inc.) By Tiffany Hsu, Los Angeles Times Unless battery technology improves dramatically, most experts doubt that electric vehicles will overtake gasoline-powered cars.
The all electric Nissan Leaf is out selling the plug in hybrid Chevy Volt at a 2 to 1 ratio. The Chevy Volt is not selling. The reasons are varied and could include the Volts' high price tag, consumer worries over the Volts' technology,
“It (Chicago) has been the best tour stop so far,” said Nissan Leaf Product Specialist Kate Quigley who says previous tour stops topped out at 300 drivers a day. “we had 500-600 drivers come through on yesterday (Friday).”
Batteries for the Nissan Leaf. (Courtesy Nissan North America Inc.) By Tiffany Hsu, Los Angeles Times Unless battery technology improves dramatically, most experts doubt that electric vehicles will overtake gasoline-powered cars.
The $59990 Mitsubishi iMiEV went on sale two months ago and the Nissan Leaf that hits the market in December is likely to be similarly priced. But the New Zeala.

Related posts:Nissan Leaf far outselling Chevrolet Volt
GM to boost Volt output to compete with Nissan Leaf
Nissan Leaf gets 5-star safety rating




Late turnovers help Rex win battle of Ryans


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 05:24:23 +0000
By NFL.com Rex Ryan thinks the New York Jets need to develop a better home-field advantage in the second season at MetLife Stadium. Linebacker Bart Scott couldn't agree more, and he has some suggestions on how fans can help. "I think the last stadium
The NFL season hasn't even started yet and officials already need to throw a flag. Can somebody please penalize Rex Ryan for illegal procedure of his mouth? Ryan, the giant coach of the New York Jets who talks like he
6:15 p.m. ET: The football season is finally in full swing, and the Jets and Cowboys, each of whom have high expectations heading into the season, will cap off the season's first Sunday with an emotional game at the
Rex Ryan wanted this one badly for the New York area — and his Jets delivered. But it was far from easy. Nick Folk kicked a 50-yard By The Associated Press A.
The NFL season hasn't even started yet and officials already need to throw a flag. Can somebody please penalize Rex Ryan for illegal procedure of his mouth? Ryan, the giant coach of the New York Jets who talks like he

Related posts:Late turnovers help Rex win battle of Ryans
Jets set to take to the air
Rex eyes Jets-Giants matchup




Late turnovers help Rex win battle of Ryans


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 05:24:17 +0000
6:15 p.m. ET: The football season is finally in full swing, and the Jets and Cowboys, each of whom have high expectations heading into the season, will cap off the season's first Sunday with an emotional game at the
The following is a transcript of Rex Ryan's news conference following Friday's midday practice at the Atlantic Health Jets Training Center, provided by the Jets: First off, there are three changes in the injury report. Mark Brunell
The receiver, now with the Jets, also praised his new coach, Rex Ryan, and Bucs coach Raheem Morris. Burress told the magazine a few weeks before he signed with the Jets in July that he wished Coughlin had shown some concern when they met after Burress
But then Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo told reporters on Wednesday that Dallas defensive coordinator Rob Ryan changed some defenses around in case Sendejo gave away any secrets to his brother, Jets coach Rex Ryan. Yesterday, both Sendejo, a safety,
In a moment of seriousness during a ceremony honoring the 10th anniversary of 9/11 ahead of the Sunday Night Football matchup between the New York Jets and Dallas Cowboys, Rex Ryan popped onto television screens

Related posts:Cowboys’ D-coordinator Rob Ryan: ‘I have great confidence’
Burress challenges pass-happy Jets to have ‘special’ attack
Jets’ Burress tweaks an ankle, won’t practice




Starz on Andy Whitfield's death: He was 'a champion'


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:24:22 +0000
Andy Whitfield has passed away from cancer. The former star of Spartacus was 37.
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Andy Whitfield, the 39-year-old star of the cable series "Spartacus: Blood and Sand," has died. Manager Sam Maydew says Whitfield died Sunday of non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Sydney, Australia. Whitfield's wife Vashti in a statement
By WSJ Staff Andy Whitfield, who won over legions of fans in the lead role of Starz's historical action series “Spartacus: Blood and Sand, ” died on Sunday from non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Sydney. He was 39 years old. According to the Hollywood Reporter,
Andy Whitfield, the original star of Starz's Spartacus: Blood and Sand period drama, died on Sunday of non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. He was 37. In a statement – TVLine.
Andy Whitfield has passed away from cancer. The former star of Spartacus was 37.

Related posts:'Spartacus' star Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39
Alisa Kleybanova battling Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Tennis player Alisa Kleybanova treated for cancer




'Spartacus' star Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 04:24:16 +0000
"On a beautiful sunny Sydney spring morning, surrounded by his family, in the arms of his loving wife, our beautiful young warrior Andy Whitfield lost his 18 month battle with lymphoma cancer," Whitfield's wife Vashti said in a
4, over 100 Ross MBAs played in a beer pong tournament which raised almost $2000 for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. Four MBA houses hosted the initial rounds before moving to the Hill House for the Final Four. The tournament included almost a full 64
Andy Whitfield, the 39-year-old star of the cable series Spartacus: Blood and Sand, has died.Manager Sam Maydew says Whitfield died Sunday of
Hockey Fights Cancer, a joint charitable initiative of the National Hockey League and the NHL Players Association, joined forces with the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (LLS) during the 2010-11 season to take a shot at pediatric cancer.
6 (Bloomberg) — 4SC AG said its experimental cancer treatment met the main goal of a mid-stage clinical trial in patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma, prompting a search for a partner to continue development. The pill, called resminostat,

Related posts:Alisa Kleybanova battling Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Star Boxing, American Cancer Society Join Forces in the Ring
NFL:  Pats owner’s wife dies of cancer at 68




Chargers show rare early-season resiliency


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 03:24:29 +0000
A wrap-up and quick thoughts on the Chargers Week 1 victory over the Minnesota vikings.
Follow the Vikings game live with the Daily Norseman game thread.
Follow the Vikings game live with the Daily Norseman game thread.
Vikings' Percy Harvin returned a 103-yard kick off for a touchdown on the opening play against the Chargers. (Carlos Gonzalez / Minneapolis Star Tribune photo) The NFL's new rule that moved kickoffs up 5 yards this season produced a huge number of
The longtime Vikings kicker says that there has been a "quiet calm" around the team this year, which has helped make for a great work environment. Veteran kicker Ryan Longwell is excited for his sixth season with the Vikings, one with a new head coach

Related posts:Vikings Open Up Season Today In San Diego
NFL Scores, Week 1: Chargers Beat Vikings On Mike Tolbert's Big Day
Tolbert's 3rd TD lifts Chargers to 24-17 win




Rex Grossman has Redskins' confidence in NFL Week 1 win over New York Giants


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 03:24:22 +0000
McNabb is gone and as Washington heads into Shanahan's second season, he still has a big question mark at quarterback and is hoping that Rex Grossman can be the answer. Grossman won a quarterback competition with John Beck this offseason and now Rex
Rex Grossman Flies Above the Haters. Posted on 11. Sep, 2011 by fdc in Front Page · Ben White: Grossman: “I got a lot of haters.” Rodney Harrison: “I'm a hater. I hated on him all last season.”
Rex Grossman went all out this offseason with his prediction for the 2011 Washington Redskins season. In a conversation with CSN Washington, Grossman declared that the Redskins would win the NFC East, We don't need people saying we're the best right
Giants News (no comments): Eli Manning considers himself an elite NFL quarterback. Sure, he has a Super Bowl ring. Nobody can take that
By Evan Bliss I was one of many perched on the John Beck bandwagon to Disney Land, only to recently discover that Beck would be riding shotgun and Rex Grossman.

Related posts:Poll: John Beck or Rex Grossman as Redskins’ starting quarterback?
Rex Grossman arriving at Redskins training camp, will compete with Beck for starting QB job
John Beck, Rex Grossman get along fine, and their battle for Redskins QB job could be a long one




Sunday Night Football: Dallas Cowboys at New York Jets


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 02:24:22 +0000
Watching the Dallas/New York Jets game tonight and continuing to celebrate the Bears' win over the Falcons.
They open Monday night on ESPN, the first of their two “Monday Night Football'' appearances this season. They also will play twice on NBC's “Sunday Night Football,'' with 10 other games airing on CBS and two more on Fox. While visions of touchdowns
Via It was such a short day, and yet we learned so much. • The Colts are going to wind up Andrew Luck. It's going to be worse than genocide. • Never.
Watching the Dallas/New York Jets game tonight and continuing to celebrate the Bears' win over the Falcons.

Related posts:Colts guru Moore joining up with Jets
Colts guru Moore is joining up with Jets
Recap:  Red Bull New York vs. FC Dallas




The Nine Worst 9/11 Response Songs


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 02:24:10 +0000
Song Sugarland – Stuck like glue – Lyrics – HQ Full Song Enrique Iglesias – I Like It (ft. Pitbull) (HQ) Full Song Owl City – Dear Vienna – Maybe I'm Dreaming Empire State of Mind – Glee Cast – Lyrics – HQ Full Song Lyrics
about heartbreaks most middle-class teens his age have yet to experience, Chance's 40-minute set also included the upbeat “Little London Girl” and a cover of Alicia Keys' and Jay-Z's “Empire State of Mind,” with toned-down, age-appropriate lyrics.
Web searches for "empire state of mind lyrics" and "empire state of mind song" are starting to soar. Concrete jungle where dreams are made of, There's nothing you can't do, Now you're in New York! These streets will make you feel brand new,
Rap Lyrics that reference the 9/11 attacks Plus more Music News, Movie Reviews and Exclusive Celebrity Interviews.  Empire State Of Mind: Hip-Hop & 9/11. Previous. Post by The Urban Daily in New Music on Sep 11, 2011 at 9:15 am
Download the fulltrack of Empire State of Mind Part II from iTunes here httpst8. The clip directed by Spike Lee features 150 children from the New York area serenading members of the FDNY to Alicia Keys39 live rendition of the featured hit Empire State of Mind alongside JayZ. Video Empire State of Mind State Farm Commercial Directed by Spike Lee. Rap Lyrics that reference the 911 attacks Plus more Music News Movie Reviews and Exclusive Celebrity Interviews.

Related posts:Cast of ‘Les Miserables’ parodies Jay-Z and Alicia Keys
Becky Stark on new Lavender Diamond music, debuts exclusive song
MTV VMAs: Odd Future's nerves and Adele's elegance




Cam Newton throws for 422 yards but Arizona wins 28-21


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 01:24:20 +0000
only keeping two quarterbacks active, Cam Newton and either Derek Anderson or Jimmy Clausen. Rivera said because Carolina wideouts Legedu Naanee and Armanti Edwards both are former quarterbacks, it gives the Panthers flexibility with their roster.
Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton (1) leaps into the end zone for a touchdown against the Arizona Cardinals during the second quarter of an NFL football game on Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011, in Glendale, Ariz. Photo: Ralph Freso / AP Arizona Cardinals
Jason Baker, Carolina Panthers (#7) — 6-2, 205. 11th-year punter from Iowa had seven punts for a 41.3-yard average in loss to Arizona. Scott Chandler, Buffalo Bills (#84), — 6-7, 268. Fourth-year tight end from Iowa had five catches for 63 yards and
Watch Carolina Panthers vs Arizona Cardinals NFL Football Live Streaming p2p Broadcast Online TV Coverage, Scores, Highlights Videos : Watch Panthers v Cardinals LIVE HD TV Broadcast Coverage, Kick Off Times,
The Cardinals defeated the Carolina Panthers in the NFL season opener. Read some quick details about the game.

Related posts:Newton throws for 422 yards but Arizona wins 28-21
Cam Newton signs with Panthers for $22M
Cam Newton signs with Panthers for $22 million




Newton throws for 422 yards but Arizona wins 28-21


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 01:24:11 +0000
GLENDALE, AZ – AUGUST 27: The Arizona Cardinals run out onto the field during introductions to the preseason NFL game against the San Diego Chargers. PHOENIX – Each Sunday, ABC15.com debuts an Arizona issue – along with two opposing sides on the topic.
A little preview information about the Cardinals/Panthers game.
Looking at the inactives for the Cardinals/Panthers game.
Watch Carolina Panthers vs Arizona Cardinals NFL Football Live Streaming p2p Broadcast Online TV Coverage, Scores, Highlights Videos : Watch Panthers v Cardinals LIVE HD TV Broadcast Coverage, Kick Off Times,
Patrick Peterson brushed off a long afternoon at cornerback with an 89-yard punt return for the go-ahead touchdown and the Arizona Cardinals escaped with a 28-21 victory over Newton's Carolina Panthers on Sunday. The No. 1 pick in the draft who had

Related posts:Arizona Diamondbacks (49-42) at St. Louis Cardinals (48-43), 2:15 p.m.
Cam Newton signs with Panthers for $22M
Cam Newton signs with Panthers for $22 million




NFL Scores, Week 1: Chargers Beat Vikings On Mike Tolbert's Big Day


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 00:24:16 +0000
By BERNIE WILSON AP Sports Writer With the Minnesota Vikings sputtering badly, Philip Rivers got the opening he'd been waiting for all afternoon. Rivers threw a 19-yard touchdown pass to fullback Mike Tolbert with 5:01 to play and the San Chargers
AP SAN DIEGO—Linebackers Larry English, Jonas Mouton and Na'il Diggs were among the inactives for the San Diego Chargers against the Minnesota Vikings on Sunday. Mouton has a shoulder injury and didn't practice this week. Diggs was signed earlier this
AP SAN DIEGO—Linebackers Larry English, Jonas Mouton and Na'il Diggs were among the inactives for the San Diego Chargers against the Minnesota Vikings on Sunday. Mouton has a shoulder injury and didn't practice this week. Diggs was signed earlier this
Watch Minnesota Vikings vs San Diego Chargers live stream If you're looking for NFL live stream of today's games as Minnesota Vikings vs San Diego.
SB Nation's Daily Norseman, a Minnesota Vikings blog, offers their perspective. My perspective of 9/11 is a little different than most folks. When 9/11 happened, I was a 24-year old Senior Airman in the United States Air Force that had just started a

Related posts:Vikings Open Up Season Today In San Diego
Tolbert's 3rd TD lifts Chargers to 24-17 win
Sam Farmer: Chargers are behind again, but so is everyone else




Washington Redskins Beat New York Giants 28-14


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 00:24:10 +0000
By Erik Wemple Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder was facing a bind. His April libel suit against the Washington City Paper over “The Cranky Redskins Fans Guide to Dan Snyder” was scheduled for a critical courtroom showdown this fall.
But when the Washington Redskins' offense stepped onto the field Sunday, Cooley was in at tight end. His status was questionable following offseason left knee surgery, and he missed all four preseason games. While LaRon Landry (hamstring) was inactive,
Hello NFL LOVERS !!! If you're looking for NFL live stream of today's games as New York Giants vs Washington Redskins for online.
But when the Washington Redskins' offense stepped onto the field Sunday, Cooley was in at tight end. His status was questionable following offseason left knee surgery, and he missed all four preseason games. While LaRon Landry (hamstring) was inactive,
Join Giants 101 on their live New York Giants/Washington Redskins week one game thread.

Related posts:Redskins TE Chris Cooley ‘extremely hopeful’ to play in Week 1 despite sore knee
Osi tells Giants he needs surgery
Redskins could use more two-tight end sets in 2011




Tolbert's 3rd TD lifts Chargers to 24-17 win


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 23:24:20 +0000
As the new head of the Vikings, Leslie Frazier does not take lightly the relationships he forges with each and every one of his players. Minnesota Vikings head coach Leslie Frazier watched quarterback Donovan McNabb (5) line up under center during
Nobody is out for Week 1, but which players will be limping into Sunday's VIkings/Chargers game in San Diego?
Sure enough, McNabb joined the Minnesota Vikings and is primed to make the most of his latest fresh start since his 2010 trade from the Philadelphia Eagles, this time as Brett Favre's successor. “My goal with reaching out to Donovan was to say, 'Hey,
Minnesota Vikings at San Diego Chargers Sunday  Minnesota is set to have veteran quarterback Donovan McNabb under center to start the 2011 campaign, as Brett Favre has finally settled into retirement. The Vikings are
Come and chat with other San Diego Chargers fans while watching the team take on the Minnesota Vikings.

Related posts:Chargers are behind again, but so is everyone else
Sam Farmer: Chargers are behind again, but so is everyone else
Vikings trade for Donovan McNabb likely to keep Christian Ponder on bench




Bears pound Falcons in opener, 30-12


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 23:24:15 +0000
11 attacks during warmups before an NFL football game against the Chicago Bears in Chicago, Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011. (AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast) Charles Rex Arbogast / AP A member of the Baltimore Ravens wears cleats emblazoned with "FDNY" in honor
SBG Global is your sportsbook for betting on Chicago Bears games! SBG Global offers NFL betting on the Bears, live NFL odds, unique football betting options like NFL futures, numerous sports betting prop wagers and
I usually start off my articles with "Greetings from the Frozen Tundra" but somehow, as I am addressing the Chicago Bears, it seems a little off today. Please allow me to just say, "Hey, it's one of your neighbors to da North. You know the place,
The Atlanta Falcons take on the Chicago Bears in Week 1 of NFL regular season action. The Falcoholic follows all the action.
The Atlanta Falcons take on the Chicago Bears in Week 1 of NFL regular season action. The Falcoholic follows all the action.

Related posts:Chicago Bears 2011 Season Preview
Ryan McMahon to sign with Atlanta Falcons
The Fifth Down: 2011 Atlanta Falcons Season Preview




Eagles swamp Rams 31-13


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 22:24:25 +0000
Your best source for quality Philadelphia Eagles news, rumors, analysis, stats and scores from the fan perspective.
The Philadelphia Eagles' other game-breakers were hard to catch, too. The St. Louis Rams couldn't keep up, especially after losing stars Steven Jackson and Sam Bradford on offense. Vick rushed for 98 yards and passed for two scores, LeSean McCoy scored
Philadelphia Eagles vs St. Louis Rams NFL Live Streaming, Philadelphia Eagles vs St. Louis Rams Live Online Streaming, Philadelphia Eagles vs St. Louis Rams Live on PC, Philadelphia Eagles vs St. Louis Rams Live
Do Michael Vick, DeSean Jackson and LeSean McCoy have the ability to be as good as, or better than, Warner, Faulk Bruce and the 1999 St. Louis Rams.
Link: Click Here To >>Watch Philadelphia Eagles vs St Louis Rams Live NFL Streaming Football Online TV Watch LIVE Philadelphia Eagles vs St Louis Rams.

Related posts:Eagles' Vick comes full circle with $100M deal
Eagles QB Michael Vick loses endorsement deal
Eagles Notes:  Lurie says Eagles won’t negotiate with Jackson during holdout




Tampa Bay Bucs drop season-opener to Detroit Lions 27-20


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 22:24:20 +0000
Tampa Bay Buccaneers will be fined for impermissible contact with players during the lockout.
The Lions and Bucs face each other in a Week One classic. This statistical analysis provides clarity on who will come out on top.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers Game Plan: how they should attack the Lions defense.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers will be fined for impermissible contact with players during the lockout.
By Jarrett Bell, USA TODAY TAMPA – Josh Freeman isn't perfect. But sometimes it seems like the Tampa Bay Buccaneers prodigy is just that. By Margaret Bowles, AP The Bucs are looking to quarterback Josh Freeman to take the team to the next level.

Related posts:Tampa Bay Bucs shut out Chiefs in preseason opener
Freeman looks sharp in Bucs’ preseason opener
Freeman, Bucs look ready for season to start in win




Vikings Open Up Season Today In San Diego


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 21:24:15 +0000
Watch Free Minnesota Vikings vs San Diego Chargers Live Stream Online NFL Football – 11 September 2011. Make yourself happy today, because the NFL game.
SB Nation's Daily Norseman, a Minnesota Vikings blog, offers their perspective. My perspective of 9/11 is a little different than most folks. When 9/11 happened, I was a 24-year old Senior Airman in the United States Air Force that had just started a
Watch Minnesota Vikings vs San Diego Chargers live stream If you're looking for NFL live stream of today's games as Minnesota Vikings vs San Diego.
SB Nation's Daily Norseman, a Minnesota Vikings blog, offers their perspective. My perspective of 9/11 is a little different than most folks. When 9/11 happened, I was a 24-year old Senior Airman in the United States Air Force that had just started a
Previewing the matchups that could determine the outcome of the Chargers/Vikings game in San Diego on Sunday.

Related posts:San Diego re-signs WR Floyd
Minnesota owner says fans shouldn’t worry about Vikings heading to L.A.
VIKINGS UNLOAD McKINNIE




Colts' flaws go beyond quarterback, other early Week 1 reactions


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 21:24:12 +0000
Read More: open game thread, open gameday thread, open gameday threads, texans game, open game day thread, texans game day thread, texans open game day thread, brb open game threads, Indianapolis Colts,
Kerry Collins' first quarter as the Indianapolis starting quarterback was everything Colts fans feared with Peyton Manning out. Collins was sacked twice and coughed up a pair of fumbles in the opening 15 minutes, helping
The Colts re-signed Joseph Addai this summer, despite the former first-round pick's mediocre production. He's gained 1867 yards and 19 touchdowns in three seasons. The Colts valued Addai's abilities as a blocker and receiver and his familiarity with
Your best source for quality Houston Texans news, rumors, analysis, stats and scores from the fan perspective.
Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning chose an aggressive, more painful surgical procedure to fuse the damaged cervical vertebrae in his neck, with the hope his recovery and return to football will be faster, FOXSports.com has learned.

Related posts:Week 1 in Fantasy Football: Favorable Matchups
With Peyton Manning under center, Colts rarely tap reserves
What's next for Peyton after surgery?




Texans live up to promise with rout of Colts


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 20:24:26 +0000
Houston Texans wide receiver Paul Williams (17) runs with the ball after making a catch in front cornerback Roc Carmichael (36). Texans wide receiver Kevin Walter pulls down a reception in the end zone in front of cornerback Roc Carmichael.
Houston Texans quarterback TJ Yates (13) and Texans offensive coordinator Rick Dennison are shown in the background flanking Schaub. Texan quarterback Matt Schaub throws a pass during the 49er-Texans game at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, Calif.,
A perception exists that the Texans have been perennial underperformers. The franchise has yet to make a playoff appearance, nine years in (the Saints, by the.
By NFL.com Wire Reports Arian Foster didn't practice with the Houston Texans for the second consecutive day, but the running back said Thursday that he's making progress in his bid to return from a hamstring injury. Foster did individual work on a side

Related posts:Arian Foster
FD (UPDATE): Foster health dispute, Maclin 'ready', Ocho stinking
Texans RB Arian Foster, receiver Andre Johnson miss practice with injuries




Bills own first half in KC


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 20:24:23 +0000
SB Nation is a collection of over 300 individual communities, each offering high quality year-round coverage and conversation led by fans who are passionate about their favorite teams, leagues or sports. By empowering fans
The Kansas City Chiefs are the first AFC West team to pick up a loss this season. They were completely outclassed by the Buffalo Bills in a 41-7 defeat on Sunday afternoon. Buffalo quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick was the offensive star of the game,
At the end of the national anthem, Chiefs fans always say, 'And the home of the Chiefs!" but, on that Sunday, it was 'And the home of the brave'. Chiefs fans cheered the Giants as they took the field in just an incredible display of emotion.
By Jay Skurski The Bills forced a turnover on the very first play at Arrowhead Stadium, converted the ensuing drive for a touchdown and have opened a 20-7 lead over the Kansas City Chiefs in Arrowhead Stadium at halftime. Dexter McCluster fumbled the
If it was possible to get a mulligan for the 2011 season, the Kansas City Chiefs would have already used theirs halfway through this afternoon to redeem their downright embarrassing loss to the Buffalo Bills today, 41-7. It was a day that absolutely

Related posts:Buffalo Bills 2011 Season Preview
NFL Preseason Preview – Tampa Bay (0-0) at Kansas City (0-0)
Defensive backfield should be strength again as Kansas City Chiefs try to build on last season




Jeff Koterba: Indelible images preserve memories of Twin Towers


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 19:24:19 +0000
On today, the enduring site on this 9-11 Anniversary where September 11th memories are shared all over the World, and NFL Football has taken an Internet back seat to 9-11, is the World Trade Center Memorial. The World Trade Center Memorial was built
The Twin Towers of the World Trade Center may be gone, but they live on in film. Dan Meth put together this supercut of the buildings' many appearances in movies. Here's a list of the movies the towers were seen in. -via The
Twin Towers. Posted on September 11, 2011 by Vladimir Brezina| Leave a comment. By Vladimir Brezina. “The … most prominent landmarks, which can be seen for a long distance at sea, are the twin towers of the World Trade Center …”
Brooklyn Theory shot an amazing photo of the World Trade Center Twin Towers Tribute In Light. The lights are made up of 88 light bulbs that are 7000 watts each, which when illuminated are visible up to 60 miles away.
Twin Towers. RIP, god have mercy on their souls thumb how ever you want, but no matter how much red this gets, im not taking it down.

Related posts:Readers Remember: Twin Towers
City Room: An App Puts the Twin Towers Back in Sight
Bits: City Room: An App Brings Back the Twin Towers




Steelers Vs. Ravens Score: Anquan Boldin Puts Baltimore In Front Instantly


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 19:24:15 +0000
in the first half of the first game of the 2011 NFL season and KC looked absolutely helpless as mistake after mistake mounted. The good news is that the Chiefs drove down the field to score a touchdown and get within two scores, 20-7, at halftime.
For more on the Eagles, head over to Bleeding Green Nation. For more on the Rams, check out Turf Show Times. Stay tuned to our NFL Week 1 StoryStream for scores and updates from around the NFL, and bookmark SB Nation NFL for regular news and analysis.
Surely this one won't be a shootout, right? For more on the Steelers, head over to Behind The Steel Curtain. For more on the Ravens, check out Baltimore Beatdown. Stay tuned to our NFL Week 1 StoryStream for scores and updates from around the NFL,
At long last, Week 1 of the NFL regular season is upon us. Gone is the breathless faux-drama of the lockout. Gone are the inferior preseason pro-am exhibitions. Now, onto the main course.The early games slate is highlighted by several.
At long last, Week 1 of the NFL regular season is upon us. Gone is the breathless faux-drama of the lockout. Gone are the inferior preseason pro-am exhibitions. Now, onto the main course.The early games slate is highlighted by several.

Related posts:NFL: Pittsburgh Steelers @ Baltimore Ravens – live!
PRESEASON SLATE
Race for the Nerf: Celebrity/media NFL Picks Week 1




Race for the Nerf: Celebrity/media NFL Picks Week 1


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 18:24:24 +0000
By Dan Moore – Managing Editor This week's NFC West picks are brought to you by the Korean Central News Agency. Sep 11, 2011 – A little less than a year ago SB Nation suggested I start doing an NFL Picks Column. "No problem," I said, "but who knows
Perhaps one of the best games to open the 2011-2012 NFL regular season will be the New York Jets going head-to-head against the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday night at New Meadowlands Stadium. Both of these storied NFL franchises will have a lot of pressure
With the 2011 NFL season officially underway, here is a look at our week one picks.
Aaron Nagler's picks for Week One of the 2011 NFL Season.
I'm not sure there are three words better than: football is back! Here's my take on how the NFL's Week 1 will shake out with my predictions and my juggernaut games of the week and my juggernot lames of the week.

Related posts:Race for the Nerf: Celebrity/media NFL Picks Week 1
The Week in Pop: My pop-culture picks (and yours!) of the week
NFL Odds Week 1: Saints Vs. Packers




NFL: Pittsburgh Steelers @ Baltimore Ravens – live!


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 18:24:13 +0000
The Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger models his new very-lightweight helmet. Photograph: Chris Keane/Reuters Steelers 7-14 Ravens, 6:01 2nd quarter Ray Rice has carried the ball just seven times so far in this game, and he already has
Link: Click Here To >>Watch Pittsburgh Steelers vs Baltimore Ravens Live NFL Streaming Football Online TV Watch LIVE Pittsburgh Steelers vs Baltimore.
Two of the area's most popular teams — the Pittsburgh Steelers and Cleveland Browns — won't be shown on local television. That means fans of both teams will be pouring into area businesses that have DirecTV and the National Football League's Sunday
By Edward Lee When the Ravens and Pittsburgh Steelers tangle in Sunday's season opener at M&T Bank Stadium, Terrell Suggs expects his path to Pittsburgh quarterback Ben Roethlisberger to be littered with roadblocks. And those roadblocks have names – as
The Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger models his new very-lightweight helmet. Photograph: Chris Keane/Reuters Steelers 7-14 Ravens, 6:01 2nd quarter Ray Rice has carried the ball just seven times so far in this game, and he already has

Related posts:Ex-Dolphin Ricky Williams signs with Baltimore Ravens
Pittsburgh Steelers sign 15 undrafted rookies
Live updates: Eagles vs. Ravens




America marks 10th anniversary of Sept. 11 terror attacks


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 17:24:33 +0000
The fire and rubble caused by those four maliciously guided jetliners devastated lower Manhattan, Arlington, Va., and Shanksville, Pa. But the shockwaves went around the world and continue to reverberate to this day.
The fire and rubble caused by those four maliciously guided jetliners devastated lower Manhattan, Arlington, Va., and Shanksville, Pa. But the shockwaves went around the world and continue to reverberate to this day.
NEW YORK — As the nation and the world mark the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the Huffington Post is following the most salient details of the day, and capturing the mood, from ground zero to Afghanistan
WELLINGTON, New Zealand — Ten years on from the day the 9/11 terrorist attacks changed so much for so many people, the world's leaders and millions of citizens are pausing to reflect. From Sydney to Atlanta, formal
Today I will have the privilege of emceeing our local commemoration of the tenth anniversary of 9/11, designated as Patriot Day. The event will take place at the state capital and will be broadcast live on AM 1280 The Patriot,

Related posts:Kids of 9/11 get a voice on TV as 10th anniversary looms
Terror threat called 'credible' for 9/11 anniversary
Former President Bush recalls Sept. 11 attacks in new interview




Race for the Nerf: Celebrity/media NFL Picks Week 1


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 17:24:10 +0000
4, 2007 contest, as the Vikings watched Peterson set a new NFL record with 296 yards against the Chargers. San Diego comes off a disappointing campaign that saw the team rank in the top 5 in both total offense and defense, only to miss the playoffs
Perhaps one of the best games to open the 2011-2012 NFL regular season will be the New York Jets going head-to-head against the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday night at New Meadowlands Stadium. Both of these storied NFL franchises will have a lot of pressure
Jason's NFL Picks-Week One. Posted by The Elm on September 10, 2011 · Leave a Comment. By Jason Bryden Elm Staff Writer. New Orleans at Green Bay The past two Super Bowl Champions will meet on Thursday night at Lambeau Field
Here are my picks and pans for week one of the NFL regular season and as always, I'll make my pick of the Ravens-Steelers contest Sunday morning: Browns over Bengals: I actually manned up and took Cleveland in my Suicide Pool, as I think that
4, 2007 contest, as the Vikings watched Peterson set a new NFL record with 296 yards against the Chargers. San Diego comes off a disappointing campaign that saw the team rank in the top 5 in both total offense and defense, only to miss the playoffs

Related posts:The Week in Pop: My pop-culture picks (and yours!) of the week
2011 NFL Predictions: Team-by-Team Records and Playoff Picks
Last minute picks for Restaurant Week






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


