Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees - Boston.com

 HOME/COLLECTIONSFrustration grows for Texas wildfire evacueesSeptember 10, 2011|Christopher Sherman, Associated PressShareE-mailPrintA truck drives through hanging smoke near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept.… (AP Photo/LM Otero)Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in reopened neighborhoods.Firefighters focused on extinguishing hotspots and had isolated remaining flames from the blaze that has burned for almost a week in and around the city of Bastrop, destroying nearly 1,400 homes and sweeping across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape.“We believe the forward progress (of the fire) has been stopped, thank God for that,’’ Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst told evacuated residents gathered at the fire command center.


Still, thousands of evacuees were prevented from returning to their homes for a sixth day because trees continued to burn underground, loose power lines hung from scorched poles and more than 800 firefighters were working to tamp down the remainder of the fire 25 miles east of Austin.“It’s just really frustrating,’’ said Dee Redenius, 40, who came to the fire command center for answers. “You want to know if your house is there or if it’s not. … They don’t let you in, you know. You can’t get assistance.’’Dewhurst said the state is working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state emergency management personnel on specific fire declarations. FEMA spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said on Friday the agency “received the first request from the governor for individual aid to help Texas residents whose homes were damaged or destroyed in the fires, or who suffered other personal losses.’’She said FEMA would “work with the White House to review this request as expeditiously as possible.’’Dewhurst also made a public plea for President Barack Obama to make a major disaster declaration that he said would remove red tape and give the state access to more resources. Hours later, White House officials announced that Obama had signed a declaration declaring a major disaster exists in Texas.The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.“We need help yesterday … Mr. President, we need a statewide disaster declaration right away,’’ Dewhurst said prior to Obama’s declaration.Texas is in the midst of its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.


12Next 


Advertisement

MORE LIKE THIS »Wildfire evacuees look to go homeSeptember 11, 2011Perry says Texas wildfire ‘mean’ as he’s ever seenSeptember 5, 2011Obama signs disaster declaration for wildfiresSeptember 10, 2011Advertisement

© 2011 NY Times Co.Your Ad Choices|Privacy Policy|Contact Boston.com|Index by Date|Index by Keyword







