2007  April | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Already Excited About Football
Comments Off






                                                             Photo AP Via Yahoo
My Forty Niners are poised for a playoff season and I can’t wait for the season to begin.  I like baseball but this year is tainted by Barry Bonds and his giant steroid head closing in on Hank Aaron’s home run title.  Lately baseball has become a league full of crybabies who head for the disabled list every time they get a hang nail. It’s hardly worth drafting a fantasy team anymore. It’s a crap shoot whether you can field a decent team day to day with all these injured players.
Along the lines of fantasy sports I will be putting together a football league with a live draft for the next season. I like Yahoo Fantasy Sports, points only settings.  If anyone wants to be put on a list email me “mikeswebmail AT gmail . com”




Posted by Mike
on 04/29/2007 •
		Filed under: Football



Give A Seat To Junior Fire Personnel
Comments Off






Harry R. Carter while sitting in the lobby of the Washington Hilton pondered why more young people are not a part of events like the Congressional Fire Service Caucus Dinner, the function he is attending.Mr. Carter and his friend Jack Peltier are troubled that fewer younger fire service personnel are seen at events like the CSFI Annual Dinner and other industry events. They admit attendance at these functions come as perks that years in service affords and entitlement that accompanies seniority.
“As a practical matter when people become more senior, they also become older. At least that is what I have seen as I have gained seniority in life. The older people hang on for so long, and fail to share so much, that the younger people who might have had an interest, lose that interest and move on to something else. We hold on for so long and we hog the spotlight for such an extended period of time that others who should have been trained as our replacements are ignored and lose interest. They then begin to fall by the wayside. Perhaps that is why Jack and I worry so much about sharing what we know. 
This bothers us. We are worried that our fire service is losing the many fine hues and tones that have made it a colorful and productive part of American culture for the past three and one half centuries. I have to stress that I am making reference to every aspect of the fire service where a giving and participative spirit is needed.”
 He’s right, and then he states what you would expect from leaders.
“Jack Peltier and I have decided the fact that we need to begin setting the tone for how this problem should be addressed. We have decided to become mentors for a number of younger people. I guess you might say that we have been doing this for a long time, but we want to formalize our approach to the delivery of mentoring.”
I’m confident they will and this is what is needed. I’m sure there are formal mentoring programs in many departments, it could be argued mentoring on some level occurs in every firehouse on every shift. Everyone Shepard’s the new recruit.Mr. Carter and I may differ on the definition of mentoring.  He cites an example of a young man at the dinner who was in attendance to witness his uncle accept an award. Mr. Carter and Mr. Peltier offered him tips on manners including saying please and thank you to “can I get you coffee?” and “do you take cream and sugar?”
I think I know where they are coming from but that’s not the mentoring I’m thinking of. The way I would get younger fire service members involved is by asking who is interested.  From that list rotate people into events like the one above.  Build expenses for these events into the budget or hit up community organizations for donations.  A seat at the table CSFI dinner is $275.00. Two nights in a hotel in Washington D.C. $400.00.  Plane fare from the West Coast $350.00. Not much all considered.
The CSFI dinner is only one of dozens of events and special training seminars and annual tributes across the nation.  Surely some are within one days driving distance to everyone’s home.  Bat. Chiefs and Fire Chiefs only need to think inclusively when planning for these trips.
Mr. Carter makes a great point and he is in a unique position to speak out. Firehouse.com is a great pulpit.  





Posted by Mike
on 04/28/2007 •
		Filed under: mentoring



Warning: Latest High For Kids…"Dusting"
Comments Off







The story below came to me in a chain email and I decided to post it verbatim.
Latest Drug in Middle School –        Dusting
‘Dusting’
“First, I’m going to tell you a little        about me and my family. My nameis Jeff. I am a Police Officer for a        city which is known nationwide forit’s crime rate. We have a lot of        gangs and drugs. At one point we were # 2in the nation in homicides        per capita. I also have a police K-9 named Thor.He was certified in        drugs and general duty. He retired at 3 years oldbecause he was shot        in the line of duty. He lives with us now and I stilltrain with him        because he likes it. I always liked the fact that there wasno way to        bring drugs into my house. Thor wouldn’t allow it. He! would tellon        you. The reason I say this is so you understand that I know about drugs.    
I have taught in schools about drugs. My wife asks all our        kids atleast once a week if they used any drugs. Makes them promise        they won’t.
I like building computers occasionally and started bu        ilding a new onein February 2005. I also was working on some of my        older computers.They were full of dust so on one of my trips to the        computer store Ibought a 3 pack of DUST OFF. Dust Off is a can of        compressed air to blowdust off a computer. A few weeks later when I        went to use one of them theywere all used. I talked to my kids and my        two sons both said they had usedthem on their computer and messing        around with them. I yelled at them forwasting the 10 dollars I paid        for them.
On February 28 I went back to the computer store. They        didn’t have the 3pack which I had bought on sale so I bought a single        jumbo can of Dust Off.I went home and set it dow! n beside my com        puter.
On March 1st, I left for work at 10 PM. Just before        midnight my wifewent down and kissed Kyle goodnight. At 5:30 am the        next morning Kathy wentdownstairs to wake Kyle up for school, before        she left for work. He waspropped up in bed with his legs crossed and        his head leanin g over. Shecalled to him a few times t! o get up. He        didn’t move. He would sometimestease her like this and pretend he fell        back asleep. He was never easy toget up. She went in and shook his        arm. He fell over. He was pale white andhad the straw from the Dust        Off can coming out of his mouth. He had the newcan of Dust Off in his        hands. Kyle was dead.
I am a police officer and I had never heard        of this. My wife is a nurseand she had never heard of this. We later        found out from the coroner, afterthe autopsy, that only the propellant        from the can of Dust off was in hissystem. No other drugs. Kyle had        died between midn ight and 1 AM.
I found out that using Dust Off        is being done mostly by kids ages 9through 15. They even have a name        for it. It’s called dusting. A takeoff from the Dust Off name. It        gives them a slight high for about 10seconds. It makes them dizzy. A        boy who lives down the street from usshowed Kyle how to do this about        a month before. Kyle showed his bestfriend. Told him it was cool and        it couldn’t hurt you. It’s just compressedair. It can’t hurt you. His        best friend said so.
Kyle was wrong. It’s not just compressed air        .. It also contains apropellant called R2. It’s a refrigeran t like        what is used in yourrefrigerator. It is a heavy gas. Heavier than air.        When you inhale it,it fills your lungs and keeps the good air, with        oxygen, out That’s whyyou feel dizzy, buzzed. It decreases the oxygen        to your brain, to yourheart. Kyle was right. It can’t hurt you. IT        KILLS YOU.
The horrible part about this is there is no warning.        There is no levelthat kills you. It’s not cumulative or an overdose;        it can just gorandomly, terribly wrong. Roll the dice and if your        number comes up youdie. IT’S NOT AN OVERDOSE . It’s Russian Roulette.        You don’t die later. Ornot feel good and say I’ve had too much. You        usually die as you’rebreathing it in. If not you die within 2 seconds        of finishing “the hit.”That’s why the straw was still in Kyle’s mouth        when he died. Why his eyeswere still open. The experts want to call        this huffing. The kids don’tbelieve its huffing. As adults we tend to        lump many things together. But itdoe sn’t fit here. And that’s why        its more accepted. There is no chemicalreaction, no strong odor. It        doesn’t follow the huffing signals. Kylecomplained a few days before        he died of his tongue hurting. It! probablydid. T he propellant        causes frostbite. If I had only known.
It’s easy to say hey, it’s        my life and I’ll do what I want . But it isn’t.Others are always        affected. This has forever changed our family’slife. I have a hole in        my heart and soul that can never be fixed. Thepain is so immense I        can’t describe it. There’s nowhere to run from it. Icry all the time        and I don’t ever cry. I do what I’m supposed to do but Idon’t really        care. My kids a! re messed up. One won’t talk about it. Theother will        only sleep in our room at night. And my wife, I can’t evendescribe how        bad she is taking this. I thought we were safe because ofThor. I        thought we were safe because we knew about drugs and talked to ourkids        about them.
Afte r Kyle died another story came out. A prob
ation        Officer went to theschool system next to ours to speak with a student.        While there he found astudent using Dust Off in the bathroom. This        student told him about anotherstudent who also had some in his locker.        This is a rather affluent schoolsystem. They will tell you they don’t        have a drug problem there.They don’t even have a dare or plus program        there. So rather thantell everyone about this “new” way of getting        high they fou nd, they hidit. The probation officer told the media        after Kyle’s death and they, theschool, then admitted to it I know        that if they would have told the mediaand I had heard, it wouldn’t        have been in my h! ouse.
We need to get this out of our homes and        school computer labs. UsingDust Off isn’t new and some “professionals”        do know about. It just isn’ttalkedabout much, except by the kids.        They all seem to know about it. April 2 ndwas 1 month since Kyle died.        April 5th would have been his 15thbirthday. And every weekday I catch        myself sittin g on the living roomcouch at 2:30 in the afternoon and        waiting to see him get off the bus. Iknow Kyle is in heaven but I can        ‘ t help but wonder If I died and went toHell.”




Posted by Mike
on 04/27/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



ClustrMaps Widget
Comments Off






Regular readers may have noticed the ClustrMaps widget on the sidebar. It’s kind of fun to see where people hit this blog from. I’m most surprised at visits from Eastern Europe.  It all adds to making this blog effort fun. Nearly half the visitors to Firefighter Blog come from search results of indexed posts and the other half come from readers like MyYahoo and Google Reader.  Google brings half of the search visitors with Yahoo! second. ASK.com, Dogpile and even  Mamma.com send traffic to a much lessor extent.





Posted by Mike
on 04/24/2007 •
		Filed under: Blog, Maps



Okefenokee Burning, Where's The Media?
3 comments






Wildfire has burned 55,000 acres of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge. The acreage represents more than 10% of total land area of the refuge.
What I find interesting about the coverage is the lack of journalistic effort put forth by traditional media.  Take a look at the news search results for the incident. On Google News there are 234 news articles on the fire but really nearly all are copies from one or two main distributors like Gannett and the AP.
Bloggers more often are providers of fire ground level information but for this incident the blog results mirror the web search news results.I don’t know the ground there, maybe it’s just swamp but 18 homes were lost or scorched so you would think there are some human interest stories and stories from firefighters on the ground.




Posted by Mike
on 04/23/2007 •
		Filed under: fire news



Firefighting Among Most Satisfying Professions
Comments Off






From Space.com via Yahoo!
Top 4 on the list of most satisfying jobs;

Clergy—87 percent percent
Firefighters—80 percent percent
Physical therapists—78 percent percent
Authors—74 percent
Special education teachers—70 percent





Posted by Mike
on 04/18/2007 •
		Filed under: firefighting



May 6th Will be Historic In A Sense
1 comment






At      Three minutes and Four seconds after 2 AM on the 6th of May This year, the      time and date will be 02:03:04 05/06/07.
This will not happen again in our lifetime.
(for once a chain email brought me something interesting)




Posted by Mike
on 04/18/2007 •
		Filed under: Oddities



CDF Now Called Cal Fire…… WTF?
Comments Off






It’s explained here.  I don’t get it and I don’t care for it. Come to think of it I didn’t like it when they changed from “California Department of Forestry” to “California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection”.
I am 100% confident they did not consult permanent employees of the department before either was put into effect. It makes me wonder how these name changing brainstorming sessions come about. Who commissions these changes?You don’t go around changing the names of a professional fire department every few years.  How often has the Boston Fire Department been changed?  Never!  FDNY? No one would ever suggest a change but put California bureaucrats on the job and you might end up with something like “New York Protectors From Fire”. NYPFF, what a joke!
Probably the worst reason given for the name change is to come in line with other state departments like Cal Trans and Cal Boat.  I’ve never heard of Cal Boat, what do they do?
Cal Fire, I will never refer to CDF as Cal Fire.




Posted by Mike
on 04/18/2007 •
		Filed under: CDF



Distinguished Career Ends Abruptly
Comments Off






On April 12 Chief Bryan Zellnor of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection lost his life in an on duty auto accident.His career path was textbook CDF as his assignments spanned the State from North to South with stops in between.

Bryan started as a sleeper firefighter in Butte County
Seasonal firefighter CDF Butte Unit
Limited term FAE Butte
Permanent Firefighter II Santa Clara Ranger Unit
Promoted full time FAE, assigned to Ramona Air Attack Base San Diego
Promoted Fire Captain at Bautista Cons. Camp in the Riverside Unit of CDF 
Promoted Battalion Chief and Chief of the Norco Conservation Camp. 
Promoted Deputy Chief to public education office for CDF in Sacramento
Promoted Deputy Chief for Conservation Camp coordination and North Ops Operations
Assistant Chief Operations in Tehama Glenn Unit 
Northern Region as Staff Chief for operations, Redding

Chief Zellnor worked on numerous Incident Command Teams for CDF as an Operations Section Chief, as a Plans Section Chief and was an Incident Commander. 
Chief Zollner received the Medal of Valor in 1998 for an off-duty rescue of a child from a burning structure in Riverside.
His father and grandfather were firefighters.  
He is survived by his wife, Pam; son, Ty; daughter, Alexia Moore; son-in-law, Charles Moore; two grandchildren; sister, Tracy Zollner; and parents Bob and Brenda Zollner.
Information in part from Oroville Mercury ReviewMemorial Information







Posted by Mike
on 04/18/2007 •
		Filed under: CDF Firefighters



Bird Flu Resource Pages From IAFF
Comments Off






I see bird flu mentioned on occassion on Internet based and TV news now and then but the threat has taken a backseat to politics and the life and times of drugged out Anna Nicole Smith.  Thankfully it has not gone off the radar of the IAFF. I received this email today.
From IAFF email bulletin:
Many scientists anticipate that the next pandemic flu is imminent and are carefully monitoring the Avian flu virus as a potential source. Pandemic Flu Resources for First Responders, a new IAFF online resource, is designed to assist IAFF members in preparing for a mass flu outbreak. 
The online program includes essential resources for responding to and protecting against a flu pandemic, including a downloadable workshop that can be taught in the fire station. The Shift Based Training Program: Preparing for the Pandemic Flu stresses the importance of preparing for a major emergency. Because IAFF members are the first to respond, and remain on duty throughout any disaster even without knowing the dangers, it’s crucial to have a disaster plan in place for work, school and home. 





Posted by Mike
on 04/05/2007 •
		Filed under: bird flu, iaff



Firefighters And Equipment Of World War ll
Comments Off






It’s a great subject and thanks to the Internet we get a peek into the past with sites like Firefighters In Fatigues, a project by James G. Davis.  Another site, Army Fire Trucks offers a great collection of fire equipment from the era.  It’s great to see the work of enthusiasts and know it is now indelible. The threat to the homeland is evidenced by the period poster here. Citizen firefighters were pressed to alert in preparation for possible attacks within our borders.
This same homeland threat exists today but not from the air.  It’s no secret a couple of dozen setters could unleash untold damage on our Western States.
(Photo from Maui.net)





Posted by Mike
on 04/05/2007 •
		Filed under: fire service history, WWII



Firehouse Pranks; Add Yours
Comments Off






Firefighters Forums  “pranks thread offers some very original firehouse pranks. I don’t endorse the chainsaw prank but some of the pranks are funny. The cricket prank is hilarious.
I was on the receiving end of a very good one.  Upon my promotion to captain from engineer I was moved from the San Luis Obispo area to the Santa Cruz Mountains.  As my crew was watching me leave I had a feeling something was up.  In my time with them I was the instigator/creator of numerous pranks. These guys had been too quiet leading up to my final day on my final shift with them.I drove off and after about 100 miles I started smelling some kind of burning animal. 20 miles later I pulled over and opened the hood and saw nothing.  Another 10 miles down Highway 101 and a closer inspection produced two whole chickens (previously frozen) wedged under the exhaust manifold.  Yeah they got me good because the smell did not go away for more than a week.Months later I ran into the architect of the prank at the CDF Fire Academy and he denied everything, brutal.
Head over to the thread linked above and add yours.  It’s a great subject.




Posted by Mike
on 04/04/2007 •
		Filed under: firehouse pranks



Mark Cuban To Me, "Are You A Communist?"
2 comments






Is Mark Cuban coming unglued?  Is the stress from reactions to his financial backing of the 9/11 conspiracy theory movie “Loose Change” getting to him? In response to a comment I posted on his blog I received an email from Mark;“In this country we let people make up their own minds. In china andrussia they tell you what to thinkAre you a communist ? Because you certainly seem to be like them andhave an interest in telliong people what they can think, say and do ?In a democracy that shouldn’t happen.Its unfortunate some in the media like taking on the role of mao andstalin”
My comment (since removed {as predicted}) basically mimicked my post from a few days ago where I asked Mark why he threw in with the Hollywood crowd on this project and if he worried what this could do to his reputation.
The email exchange continued when I suggested the film serves to embolden the enemy.  Mark replies;
“Embolden the enemy ?Do you think the new offer in mosques is 70 virgins and a new dvd.Get real.”
Stubborn, intransigent, doesn’t get it or maybe he’s consciously entering a new phase in his life. Maybe the sedate down home lifestyle of Dallas is no longer enough. The Hollywood parties are more alluring than the average Texas BBQ (to some) and L.A. is definitely more exciting.
Maybe he thinks ingratiating himself to that crowd gets him an Al Gore moment at the Oscars?  It won’t happen, only the extreme fringe buy the idea of the government somehow orchestrated Sept.11.Mark’s moment of clarity will come the day he is invited to the Sheen family complex. He’ll be sitting poolside with Marty and Charlie and as the two are yammering on and on how the U.S. is always on the wrong side and how forward thinking the Venezuelan dictator is it will hit him.





Posted by Mike
on 04/02/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



This Will Make Your Day
Comments Off






Take a moment to view this photo essay set to a beautiful hymn.
After watching the photo array visit the main site of Iwo.com.  I spent over an hour exploring this great military site, once you start clicking links you can’t stop.Thank God for our military and the sacrifices they make  every day for our freedoms. 




Posted by Mike
on 04/01/2007 •
		Filed under: Military heroes

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















