2011  February | Fire Special Operations
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Fire Special Operations


About
Cheat Sheets
Training
Documents
Technology
Links






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


New Zealand May Request Additional US&R Assistance for Recovery Efforts
No comments







Bloomberg.com reports:
New Zealand may seek additional help to find more than 200 missing people in Christchurch following a 6.3-magnitude earthquake, as search-and-rescue efforts in the nation’s second-largest city enter a fifth day.
We will be needing more help before this is over,” Foreign Minister Murray McCully told reporters yesterday. “No country can have on hand the sort of expert resources in the area of urban search and rescue which would enable it to cope with the scope of the quake we saw
500 search-and-rescue workers are operating in Christchurch, including teams from Australia, the U.S., Taiwan, Japan and Singapore. A team of 10 rescuers from China and the remainder of a 55-strong U.K. team joined the search yesterday, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade.
The death toll is at least 145 people and there are still at least 200 people missing, Police Superintendent Dave Cliff said today. Many foreigners were caught in the quake, including students at an English-language school, McCully said.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on February 26, 2011 •
		Filed under: administration-leadership, command-leadership, ems-topics, major-incidents, mass-casualty-incident, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations, Uncategorized
		• Tagged: building collapse, New Zealand, recovery, rescue, rescue team, search dog, technical rescue, technical search, urban search & rescue, US&R, USAID, USAR Task Force 


Video: Ethanol Cars Derail and Burn in Ohio
No comments







Initial reports are that 28 cars of a 62 car Northfolk Southern train derailed in Arcadia, Ohio.   The train, running from Chicago to North Carolina, was loaded with ethanol.  As many as 18 cars, scattered on both sides of the tracks are on fire.   Evacuations are in effect for 20 homes in area.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on February 6, 2011 •
		Filed under: fires, hazmat, major-incidents, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: EPA, ethanol, fire, flammable liquid, foam, hazmat, hazmat team, Norfolk Southern, Ohio, train derailment 


Patients were “Diving” in Hyperbaric Chambers When Then Staff Began  Feeling Ill
No comments







Sebring, Florida — According NewsSun.com, The Florida Hospital Center for Wound Healing and Hyperbaric Medicine was evacuated a little after 11:30 a.m. on Thursday morning after three staff members had complaints of dizziness, shortness of breath, headaches and nausea according to Nurse Manager Jerilyn Stamps. (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on February 6, 2011 •
		Filed under: hazmat, patient-management, special-operations
		• Tagged: Carbon Monoxide, hazmat, hazmat team, HazMatIQ, Red 1, sick building 
 




 








New Up Loads
3/7/10 - Two crush syndrome EMS treatment protocols added to the Document page.   
2/28/10 - IED Stand Off Distance card added to the Cheat Sheet page


Current US Threat Level 




Homeland Security Live Alert

 State Urban Search & Rescue
Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011TrainingRe: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011
 Homeland Security News
Threats posted on White House Facebook pagePolice Meet Plane At Detroit Metro Airport911 Video – Remembering What We SawSouthwest Flight Diverted Over Suspicious PassengerTravelers Interviewed in 9/11 Terror Probe


Recent Comments
web design bangalore on Ohio Derailment Caused Brief Evacuation.Gav-070406 on Crush Syndrome…The Smiling DeathBLS Certification on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.Arrugha on Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!tArrugha on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.


 Sponsors
 
 



Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				



















