Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in - Nation Wires - MiamiHerald.com');
    }
-->



 

 
 

 









































Services
Subscriptions
Digital Newspaper
Place an Ad
Miami.com
MomsMiami.com
ElNuevoHerald.com
Public Notices


































The Miami Herald > 


News > 


Nation > 


Nation Wires







        Nation Wires









LogoutMember Center




 





Weather | Traffic










Home
News
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Living
Opinion
Jobs
Cars
Real Estate
Shop
Classifieds

















Miami-Dade|
Broward|
Keys|
Florida|
Nation|
World|
Americas|
Cuba|
Haiti|
Politics|
Schools|
Obituaries|
WLRN







Posted on Thursday, 09.08.11Posted on Thursday, 09.08.11





 




email
print
comment










tool name
close [x]


      tool goes here
    


Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN       Associated Press      



 




















Photos






Related Content

Crews make gains against raging blaze near Austin

Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in

Texas residents quickly fled as wildfire closed in

Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm








Similar stories:
 
 Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas 


 Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas 

  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.  
 
 Texas wildfires evacuees anxious to return home 


 Texas wildfires evacuees anxious to return home 

  After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos got the news Saturday: His house had burned down in the blaze.  
 
 Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire 


 Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire 

  Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.  
 
 Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes 


 Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes 

  One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.  
 
 Firefighters progress against Central Texas blaze 


 Firefighters progress against Central Texas blaze 

  Firefighters are tamping down hotspots and holding back flames from a wildfire that has burned for days across Central Texas, incinerating nearly 1,400 homes and tens of thousands of acres of drought-parched land, officials said Friday.  



By CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN

Associated Press



BASTROP, Texas --   
      Dennis Silman was in line at the store when his wife's urgent call came through: They needed to get out. Smoke was drifting up through the woods and the wildfire that just 30 minutes earlier wasn't near enough to pose a problem was visible over the treetops by the time he got home.In just 90 minutes, Silman was able to make four trips loading clothes and a few important possessions into his Mustang. He could feel the blaze's heat and hear the crackling roar as he packed his car. Less than two hours after they drove away for the last time Sunday, the Bastrop Complex fire consumed his home and six other houses of relatives who all lived within about four square miles of each other."My house, my sister-in-law, her brother, my mother-in-law and three brothers-in-law houses are gone," the 53-year-old bail bondsman said Wednesday outside the county convention center where he came to find out about federal assistance. "Everything's gone now."      

      Fed by stiff winds and extreme drought, the more than 33,000-acre blaze had blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, about 25 miles east of Austin, leaving two people dead and consuming nearly 1,400 homes by early Thursday, according to the Department of Public Safety. The White House said President Barack Obama telephoned Gov. Rick Perry to say the federal government would continue providing firefighting assistance and quickly assess requests for more aid.Many Bastrop residents said they had received cell phone photos or videos from those who sneaked back into the fire zone or from volunteer firefighters and police who checked on friends' homes. Others were left to crowd around lists of the lost street addresses posted at the county convention center.The fire was about 30 percent contained Wednesday and firefighters hoped to take advantage of low winds to make more progress. The destruction has made the blaze the most catastrophic of more than 170 fires that have erupted in the past week - one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history, which has been blamed for a total of four deaths.The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer. Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team, mobilized Wednesday in Bastrop to search the smoldering ruins for more victims. But several thousand people successfully evacuated ahead of the fire, and Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said about 2,500 people had stopped by one of the county's shelters. Many more people likely stayed with family or friends.Some residents needed no urging to leave because they saw the flames lapping at the trees. Others heard from friends and neighbors, while still others found a sheriff's deputy at their door or heard firemen rolling down the street with bullhorns. In most cases no one had to be told twice. A wildfire here two years ago drove people from their homes and everyone knew about the severity of the drought.    


Full Story1 | 2 | Next »





 














email
print


  Share







 Twitter

















Join the discussion
The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's 	in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.  Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts. 
We have introduced a new commenting system called Disqus for our articles.  This allows readers the option of signing in using their Facebook, Twitter, Disqus or existing MiamiHerald.com username and password.
Having problems? Read more about the commenting system on MiamiHerald.com.





This affects comments on all stories.




0 comments












    Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.








Miami Herald
Web Search powered byYAHOO!SEARCH








Search: Obituaries | Horoscopes | Data Sleuth | Events 


























Get the Deal!















Value:
Discount:
You Save:























 




More 


Nation Wires



Nation Wires  
Traffic nightmare over closed Ohio River bridge
 
Arraignment scheduled in NC stepdaughter's death
 
Roads closed, rivers still flooded in Northeast
 
Woman burned with curling iron in home invasion
 
The nations weather
 
Onetime 9/11 hero faces prison in NYC bribe cases
 

More







Videos

















VIDEO FROM OUR PARTNERS


NDN VIDEO





On Facebook





 







Quick Job Search



Enter Keyword(s)

Enter City

Select a State

 – All United States – 
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming

Select a Category

 – All Job Categories – 
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive
Banking
Biotech
Broadcast - Journalism
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse




Advanced Job Search


Search by Category












News
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Living
Opinion
Classifieds
Services
Site Map








 RSS|
  My Yahoo|
Newsletters|
Widgets|
Mobile|
Alerts|
Twitter


Terms of Service|
Privacy Policy|
About our ads|
Copyright|
About The Miami Herald|
About the McClatchy Company|
Corrections|
Contact Us|
Advertise|
Work  for Us


Partners: 
El Nuevo Herald|
Newspaper in Education|
WLRN | Miami Herald News|
CBS4 WFOR-TV|
More

Copyright 2011 Miami Herald Media Co. All rights reserved



Report comment as: (required)
X



Obscenity/vulgarity
Hate speech
Personal attack
Advertising/Spam
Copyright/Plagiarism
Other



			Remarks: (optional)
		






































