Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire - Nation Wires - MiamiHerald.com');
    }
-->



 

 
 

 









































Services
Subscriptions
Digital Newspaper
Place an Ad
Miami.com
MomsMiami.com
ElNuevoHerald.com
Public Notices


































The Miami Herald > 


News > 


Nation > 


Nation Wires







        Nation Wires









LogoutMember Center




 





Weather | Traffic










Home
News
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Living
Opinion
Jobs
Cars
Real Estate
Shop
Classifieds

















Miami-Dade|
Broward|
Keys|
Florida|
Nation|
World|
Americas|
Cuba|
Haiti|
Politics|
Schools|
Obituaries|
WLRN







Posted on Wednesday, 09.07.11Posted on Wednesday, 09.07.11





 




email
print
comment










tool name
close [x]


      tool goes here
    


Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire APRIL CASTRO       Associated Press      



 




















Photos






Related Content

Officials: 1,000 Texas homes burned in past week

Officials: 2 killed in massive Central Texas blaze

Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm

Winds fueling massive Texas wildfire finally calm

Crews make gains against raging blaze near Austin

Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes








Similar stories:
 
 Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes 


 Texas fires kill 4, destroy more than 1,000 homes 

  One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ruins Tuesday and stretched the state's firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presidential contest heats up.  
 
 Perry, Romney discuss wildfires ahead of debate 


 Perry, Romney discuss wildfires ahead of debate 

  Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney briefly discussed the wildfires in Texas before the Republican presidential debate in California.  
 
 Perry leaves Texas wildfires, goes to GOP debate 


 Perry leaves Texas wildfires, goes to GOP debate 

  Gov. Rick Perry left wildfire-ravaged Texas on Wednesday and flew to California to debate his Republican presidential rivals, deciding that the chance to deliver his message to a national audience outweighed any criticism he might receive for not being at the scene of a home-state emergency.  
 
 Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas 


 Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes in Texas 

  A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.  
 
 Perry calls on elite team to lead wildfire search 


 Perry calls on elite team to lead wildfire search 

  Gov. Rick Perry says a 100-member search team will comb an area of Texas near Austin for more possible victims from a massive wildfire already blamed for two deaths.  



By APRIL CASTRO

Associated Press



BASTROP, Texas --   
      Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.      

      Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.    

Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.

Full Story1 | 2 | Next »





 














email
print


  Share







 Twitter

















Join the discussion
The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's 	in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.  Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts. 
We have introduced a new commenting system called Disqus for our articles.  This allows readers the option of signing in using their Facebook, Twitter, Disqus or existing MiamiHerald.com username and password.
Having problems? Read more about the commenting system on MiamiHerald.com.





This affects comments on all stories.




0 comments












    Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.








Miami Herald
Web Search powered byYAHOO!SEARCH








Search: Obituaries | Horoscopes | Data Sleuth | Events 


























Get the Deal!















Value:
Discount:
You Save:























 




More 


Nation Wires



Nation Wires  
Traffic nightmare over closed Ohio River bridge
 
Arraignment scheduled in NC stepdaughter's death
 
Roads closed, rivers still flooded in Northeast
 
Woman burned with curling iron in home invasion
 
The nations weather
 
Onetime 9/11 hero faces prison in NYC bribe cases
 

More







Videos

















VIDEO FROM OUR PARTNERS


NDN VIDEO





On Facebook





 







Quick Job Search



Enter Keyword(s)

Enter City

Select a State

 – All United States – 
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming

Select a Category

 – All Job Categories – 
Accounting
Admin & Clerical
Automotive
Banking
Biotech
Broadcast - Journalism
Business Development
Construction
Consultant
Customer Service
Design
Distribution  - Shipping
Education
Engineering
Entry Level
Executive
Facilities
Finance
General Business
General Labor
Government
Health Care
Hotel - Hospitality
Human Resources
Information Technology
Insurance
Inventory
Legal
Legal Admin
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Nurse
Other
Pharmaceutical
Professional Services
Purchasing -  Procurement
QA - Quality Control
Research
Restaurant - Food Service
Retail - Grocery
Sales
Science
Skilled Labor - Trades
Strategy - Planning
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Training
Transportation
Warehouse




Advanced Job Search


Search by Category












News
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Living
Opinion
Classifieds
Services
Site Map








 RSS|
  My Yahoo|
Newsletters|
Widgets|
Mobile|
Alerts|
Twitter


Terms of Service|
Privacy Policy|
About our ads|
Copyright|
About The Miami Herald|
About the McClatchy Company|
Corrections|
Contact Us|
Advertise|
Work  for Us


Partners: 
El Nuevo Herald|
Newspaper in Education|
WLRN | Miami Herald News|
CBS4 WFOR-TV|
More

Copyright 2011 Miami Herald Media Co. All rights reserved



Report comment as: (required)
X



Obscenity/vulgarity
Hate speech
Personal attack
Advertising/Spam
Copyright/Plagiarism
Other



			Remarks: (optional)
		






































