Conservative Daily News: The Top Source for American Conservative Political News



















Home
2012 Election News
Politics
Opinion
Videos
CDNews Radio

Mitchell and Ray
The Dark Side


Reader Polls
Advertise
About

Contact Us
Subscribe to Newsletter
Privacy Policy


Write for CDN


In The News
States’ News
9-11 Remembered
Conservative Philosophy

Conservative Book Club


Support Our Troops
A Broken System

Education
Foster Care
Immigration
Public Sector Unions


Blogs

Allenah Manzanagrano
Michelle Ray
Rich Mitchell
SmalGov


CDN Staff












Lead Article
Most Read




 
Featured


      Tea Party Express/CNN GOP Debate Tomorrow Night at Florida State Fairgrounds      
2012 GOP Presidential candidates will square off at the Florida State fairgrounds on Monday, Sept 12th, 2011, in a debate sponsored by the Tea-party Express and CNN. CNN’s Wolf Blitzer will be the moderator. The fairgrounds are located at the intersection of Interstate 4 and U.S. Highway 301 in Hillsborough county with easy access from[continue reading...]



Most Popular Posts at CDN: 
911 Heart A Day Like No Other Speaker Boehner to Obama: Not So Fast, Mr. President Tea Party Express/CNN GOP Debate Tomorrow Night at Florida State Fairgrounds Obama Claims Jobs Bill Paid For 9/11 + 10 You Will Never Be Forgotten A Picture Is Worth A Thousand Words Obama Is A Uniter Not A Divider After All- Except In Jerusalem Operation Fast and Furious - Another Update We Made Our Voices Heard Sept 12: CDNews Staff to Host GOP Debate Live Chat 7:45p Eastern  










Political Cartoons



 

                                      911 Heart                                      
A.F. Branco



 

                                      Dam Jobs Plan                                      
A.F. Branco


 


Politics


 

      CNN/Tea Party Express Debate Tonight: Hobbits Allowed      
Kira Davis
Tonight in Florida the GOP Presidential candidates will square off in what should be an interesting debate, more so because of who is hosting it than who the candidates are.  CNN has teamed up the national tea party organization, Tea Party Express to present a two hour debate moderated by CNN lead anchor Wolf Blitzer. [continue reading...]




      Sept 12: CDNews Staff to Host GOP Debate Live Chat 7:45p Eastern      
Allenah Manzanagrano
Join the CDN staff tonight at 7:45pm for a live chat on the GOP debate HERE Allenah Manzagrano is the art & graphics director of ConservativeDailyNews.com and a Conservative political commentator. You can follow Allenah on twitter, facebook and freedomtorch.


 

      Operation Fast and Furious – Another Update      
Warren Beatty (not the liberal actor)
Administration Out Of Control? WOW! Is this administration out of control, or what? First, in 2009, the ATF office in Phoenix, Arizona, sold weapons to gun buyers, in an operation known as “Fast and Furious,” hoping to track them to weapons buyers traffickers along the southwestern border and into Mexico. But then the operation went[continue reading...]


 

      A Picture Is Worth A Thousand Words      
Michael Raymond
While it is cliche’, it is true that a picture is worth a thousand words. What do you notice about this picture?         UPDATE: Scripture makes this picture worth a lifetime!    


 

      Tea Party Express/CNN GOP Debate Tomorrow Night at Florida State Fairgrounds      
DJ Redman
2012 GOP Presidential candidates will square off at the Florida State fairgrounds on Monday, Sept 12th, 2011, in a debate sponsored by the Tea-party Express and CNN. CNN’s Wolf Blitzer will be the moderator. The fairgrounds are located at the intersection of Interstate 4 and U.S. Highway 301 in Hillsborough county with easy access from[continue reading...]


 

      Obama Claims Jobs Bill Paid For      
Warren Beatty (not the liberal actor)
President Barack Obama’s promise Thursday (September 8, 2011) that everything in his jobs plan will be paid for rests on highly iffy propositions. It will be paid for if a committee he can’t control does his bidding, if Congress puts that into law, and if Congress, in the “out years,” doesn’t roll it back. The[continue reading...]


 

      Green Jobs – Why Won’t Obama Learn From Europe?      
Warren Beatty (not the liberal actor)
Green Jobs and the Economy President Barack Obama promised jobs, jobs, jobs if we (taxpayers) funded his “green” initiative. But… green jobs company failures are ubiquitous, and are getting more interesting by the minute. Solyndra, a California solar panels manufacturer, filed for bankruptcy and laid off more than 900 full-time employees, leaving just 113 employees,[continue reading...]


 

      The Jobs Speech: Same Proposals Will Equal Same Results      
Ryan Craig
President Obama gave his much anticipated speech on jobs (links to full text and video below). While many were looking forward to some plan from the leader of the country, and his supporters were glad to have something to justify their reverence for the man they will vote for next year, the speech falls incredibly short when[continue reading...]


 

      Congressional “Super Committee” Meets, THCA Urges Protection From Texas Rep. Hensarling Co-Chairman      
PRNewswire
Texas Nursing Home Advocates Encourage Co-Chairman Hensarling to Maintain Adequate Medicare and Medicaid Funding for Preservation of Quality Care, Key Caregiver Jobs AUSTIN, Texas, Sept. 8, 2011 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ — The Texas Health Care Association (THCA) today praised the 12 bipartisan U.S. House and Senate members of the Congressional “super committee” for convening their initial meeting in Washington, and[continue reading...]







Videos





                                      Obama Is A Uniter Not A Divider After All- Except In Jerusalem                                      



 




                                      Marco Rubio Responds to Obama’s Jobs Plan                                      



 

 
 









In The News

 
      Speaker Boehner to Obama: Not So Fast, Mr. President            
DJ Redman
    Shortly after President Obama’s stimulus, err jobs speech where the President demanded many, many times that his “jobs bill” ( which no one has seen in writing) be passed right away, right now, hurry, hurry, he received a letter from Speaker Boehner and several top Republicans. The gist of this letter?   Not so fast[continue reading...]

      Tim Connolly’s Winning Strategies Reflects on September 11, 2001 With a White House Insider and a Wall Street Banker            
PRNewswire
HOUSTON, Sept. 8, 2011 /PRNewswire/ — On Friday, September 9, Tim Connolly’s Winning Strategies will comprehensively discuss the 9/11 attacks with three individuals intimately familiar with the attacks and the subsequent changes in the fabric of American life for the last ten years.  The show will feature interviews with White House appointed and National Holocaust Museum Chairman Fred Zeidman,Washington based money[continue reading...]




Opinion

 
      A Day Like No Other            
Michael Raymond
It was a bright, sunny Tuesday morning.  I awoke from a good night’s sleep around 7:25am Central time that day.  It was a day I was off from work, chalk full of appointments and other things that sometimes must happen on a weekday. I got out of bed, kicked on the TV, which was tuned[continue reading...]

      Hoffa: What he said was not bad…. comparatively.            
Brady Boyd
“Let’s take these son of a bitches out.” Hoffa shouted to a large crowd on Labor Day 2011 in regards to the Tea Party. Individuals on both sides of the political spectrum are upset about the statement, ranging from conservatives to the likes of MSNBC. Yet, Hoffa’s statement is incredibly tame, and it is naïve[continue reading...]




The Economy


      U.S. Exports Hit $178 Billion in July            
Rich Mitchell
WASHINGTON, Sept. 8, 2011 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ – The United States exported $178 billion in goods and services in July 2011, an all-time high, according to data released today by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) of the U.S. Commerce Department. Exports of goods and services over the last twelve months totaled $2.005 trillion, which is 27.3 percent above the level of exports in 2009.[continue reading...]

      Funded Status of U.S. Pensions Falls to 78.0 Percent in August            
PRNewswire
BOSTON, Sept. 7, 2011 /PRNewswire/ — The funded status of the typical U.S. corporate pension plan in August fell 5.6 percentage points to 78.0 percent as pension plans were affected by both falling assets and increasing liabilities for the second month in a row, according to monthly statistics published by BNY Mellon Asset Management. The typical plan[continue reading...]




Humor

 
      Christianity Split; Dogs and Rocks Caught in Cross-Fire            
Rich Mitchell
It is nearly impossible to expect even the best of friends to agree on everything. Actually, some of the most enlightening conversations are held when to people who respect each other disagree. While most conversations and many debates never create catastrophic collateral damage, the odd venue and humorous tone of the following debate may affect[continue reading...]
 
      Lemonade Concessioneers to Unionize Due to ‘Big Mean Government’            
Rich Mitchell
Young lemonade stand owners across America have been the subject of government witch hunts for the last few months. Local governments have been shutting down stands owned by children trying to make a little extra summer cash to pay for pet food, toys and trips to amusement parks. The government crack-down has all but dashed[continue reading...]




Blogs


      The Dark Side with Kira Davis Premiers 9/13 on CDNews Radio            
Kira Davis
I used to think of conservatism as the Dark Side.  Growing up in socialist Canada, the daughter of agnostic/atheist hippies, I developed a real disdain for the ideology of conservatism.  When I moved to America for good in 1992, I only had my ideas bolstered by a media that hated Ronald Reagan and painted every[continue reading...]
 
      Flashbulb Memories, What Were You Doing On September 11, 2001?            
Brian Evans
Do you remember where you were on that September day in 2001? Some people can remember where they were with such clarity. These memories are known as “Flashbulb Memories”. They occur when an individual’s history meets History in the making. There is not a lot of study on this phenomenon but some of these memories are associated[continue reading...]



Conservative Sites to Visit
Big Dawg Music Mafia
Comically Incorrect
Conservative Blogs Central
Conservative News Central
Conservative's Forum
Hosier Access
Loyal to Liberty
Noisy Room
Righting Our Consent
Tax Tips for Democrats
Texas Fred
Typical Shooter
Truth About Bills
 













          CNN/Tea Party Express Debate Tonight: Hobbits Allowed          

          Sept 12: CDNews Staff to Host GOP Debate Live Chat 7:45p Eastern          

          We Made Our Voices Heard          

          Operation Fast and Furious – Another Update          

          A Picture Is Worth A Thousand Words          


  Subscribe to CDN's RSS Feed





CDNews Weekly Reader Poll
Who's To Blame for the Mortgage Mess [Can Select More than One)
Progressive Housing Policy (67%)
FHA - Fanie and Freddie (54%)
Banks (32%)
Sub-prime borrowers (31%)
George W. Bush (14%)
I'm not sure (1%)


 Loading ...
Polls ArchiveAdvertise Here 






Online Advertising


Recent Comments

down4whatUneed { I am interested in knowing where the Conservatives were when President Bush was tanking the economy. I am interested in knowing where the Tea Party... } –  Sep 12, 7:31 AM
Max { "We should begin to explore the idea of closing the majority of our overseas military installations and utilizing those troops to secure our national borders.... } –  Sep 12, 7:22 AM
Forums4Justice { Fixing the Deficit/Debt http://bit.ly/qzeKC0 Revenues Spending Deficit Deficit GDP %ages FY1996-FY2011 http://bit.ly/jnfQMr } –  Sep 12, 5:13 AM
Brian Cook { hey now, give Barry a break. He's not used to praying... } –  Sep 12, 12:21 AM

CDN: The Best in News 



Subscribe to CDNs Regular NewsletterFill out the form below to signup for the Conservative Daily News newsletter and we'll drop you a line as new articles come up.


Our strict privacy policy keeps your email address 100% safe & secure.G-Lock opt-in manager for newsletter mailing softwareArchives  Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 

 

 




































 © 2009 - 2011
    Conservative Daily News

    | Conservative Daily News is a property of Anomalous Media LLC

Log in
    |

    Register |
    24 queries.

    5.335
    seconds. 





