The Straits Times - ST Forum











Last updated at 7.01 pm
Reader
E-paper





















 






html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3c.org/TR/1999/REC-html401-19991224/loose.dtd"

Singapore weather24°C -
   31°C




Search




 








 




Razor TV



 Top Stories 
 News 
 Current Affairs 
 Entertainment 
 Lifestyle 
 Food 
 Fashion 
 Popular 





Stomp



 What's Hot 
 Club Stomp 
 Talkback 
 I Say, You Say 
 Youthphoria 
 Court Room 
 Ask Libby
 Getai A-go-go 
 Love Stories 
 DIY Video 
 Reallife.sg 
 Hey Goondus! 











Classifieds



 Jobs 
 Cars 
 Property 
 Shops 
















 







Home
Community
Forum Letters

 



 Forum Letters
 

Don't lift curbs on speculation 
 I READ with concern the report that Singapore property developers want the cooling measures reviewed in the coming months ('Developers: Review cooling measures'; last Saturday).  
 

It's not demand that's fuelling prices 
 WHILE I agree that market forces should prevail, one has to ask if the high prices of private property are really due to demand or speculation ('Unreasonable to ask Govt to control private property market' by Ms Lee Swee Mei; Aug 26).  
 

$70 rebate for couples taking marriage classes 
 WE THANK Mr Lim Boon Seng for his support and suggestions ('Two suggestions to cut divorce risk'; Sept 5).  
 

Runners kill the joy of leisurely walk 
 AN INCONSIDERATE habit that takes the smile off the face of nature lovers who enjoy a leisurely walk is slowly becoming rampant.  
 

Slow down vehicles as they enter slip roads 
 I AM heartened to note the various measures taken to beef up safety on the road ('Road accident 'black spots' made safer'; last Friday).  
 

Forum online 
 1 MR HAN CHEE FONG: Take car dealers out of COE equation  
 



 Online Letters
 

Take car dealers out of COE equation 
 I AGREE with Mr Tan Beng Guan ("Unbundle COE from car loan"; last Thursday). Bundling loans in certificate of entitlement bidding has a clear tendency to drive up the prices of COEs.  
 

Car loans and negative equity 
 I BELIEVE there are alternative views to Mr Tan Beng Guan's proposal to unbundle certificate of entitlement (COE) from car financing ("Unbundle COE from car loan"; last Thursday).  
 

Sign welcomes public but service signals otherwise 
 MY SON has golf lessons at the driving range at Raffles Country Club every Tuesday.  
 

Couple raring to start family face housing woes 
 LIKE Mr Lim Chong Wee, I too cannot realise my dreams of owning an HDB flat ("Stuck in housing limbo despite higher ceiling"; last Wednesday).  
 

Frustrating time with SIA's website 
 IT HAS been frustrating using the Singapore Airline's website. How can customers book their flights when the site shuts down before the schedule can be viewed and tickets purchased?  
 

Cut the inefficiency out of Bay Run 
 THE Safra Singapore Bay Run & Army Half Marathon is one of several organised runs I look forward to every year. Unfortunately, I was not able to make it this year, but even more unfortunate was the incident reported last Wednesday ("Blip over Bay Run bib?").  
 

Telco plays hard to get despite 7 calls in one day 
 I ATTEMPTED seven calls to StarHub's 1633 technical hotline on Sept 3 from 11.45am to 2pm.  
 

OpenNet installation concerns resolved 
 IN HER letter last Thursday, Madam Tan Kien Hong mentioned that she was unable to join the installation roll-out last year ("14 months and still waiting for OpenNet link").  
 







 





 



 

 


Write in to us
Kindly note the rules and guidelines about Forum contributions




Please include your full name (as in IC), your address and a phone number.
Letters must be unpublished in any platform and meant for exclusive publication only in Forum/Forum Online.
Unless advised, Forum exclusivity lapses if we do not contact you within five working days of receiving your letter and it will not be published.
Letters should be no longer than 400 words and must state the writer's full name, address and telephone numbers. Letters to "Your Letters" in The Sunday Times should be no longer than 300 words each.
Published letters will state the contributor's name. Pseudonyms will not be accepted.
The Forum editor reserves the right to edit a letter.
Official replies must reach stforum@sph.com.sg by noon if they wish to be considered for publication the next day.
For security reasons, attachments will not be opened. Kindly write your letter or reply in the email.
For women, please indicate Miss, Ms, Mrs or Madam.
Your profile (optional): We welcome more details about yourself such as your age, marital status, family members, occupation and a brief description of your expertise/interests (maximum of three).
Your profile, address and telephone numbers will be kept confidential and will only be released with your consent.
Reactions and postings in Forum Online (at www.straitstimes.com) are under the purview of the ST Online Editor. Email your queries and comments to The ST Online Editor, stonline@sph.com.sg 




 Useful information

Mailing address:
          The Straits Times Forum editor
          Singapore Press Holdings
          1000, Toa Payoh North 
          News Centre, Podium, Level 2
          Singapore 318994 

For assistance, contact:
          Noor Aiza Mohamed Joz (Ms)
          Forum Administrator
          DID: 6319-5454
          Fax: 6319-8274
          Email: stforum@sph.com.sg




 











Search The Straits Times



Search




Archive


S
M
T
W
T
F
S


04
05
06
07
08
09
10


11
12
13
14
15
16
17




Follow ST







ST Sections


News Products
      •	 •	 iPhone •	 News Alert
 
Customer Care
      •	 Subscribe  •	 About Us • Advertise •	 FAQ • Contact Us 


SPH Websites

 The Business Times | BT Stocks
RazorTV
STOMP
ST 701
School Pocket Money Fund
Asia News Network
AsiaOne
Zaobao
Radio 91.3



 

Copyright © 2011 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn No. 198402868E. All rights reserved.
 Terms & Conditions












