Updates - View an update and leave a comment - Yahoo! Pulse





 Skip to search.      New User? Register  Sign In

		Help
	
  Make Y! My Homepage Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Pulse              Search   Search Web       





Sign In


Enter a contacts or person's name, currently viewing:peter






 



Profile
Info




 


peter


peterGet updates

23 - Male - Washington, District of Columbia

Reason, Season, or Lifetime People come into your life for a reason, a season or a lifetime. When you figure out which one it is, you will know what to do for each person.
             3 days ago



Member since: 08/31/2002

Block
Report Abuse







 




Add



Manage

Manage networks
Manage updates



Checking for new updates
We were unable to load your updates Try again
Loading

We are unable to get your Facebook updates. Please add Facebook again.
  has been added to your updates feed. Add other networks you use, then use the new tabs to view your updates





Sign in to see what your friends are doing across the web.
Are you a New User? Sign Up





peter Reason, Season, or Lifetime People come into your life for a reason, a season or a lifetime. When you figure out which one it is, you will know what to do for each person. 




Posted at Sep 8 3:42 PM Posted to 








 

peter iMac, iPhone, iPod, iTunes, iCloud, iOs, iStore, iTouch, iPad.......................Imagine!!! THIS WORLD SELF TOO HIGH. 




Posted at Sep 8 3:41 PM Posted to 








 

peter Texas wildfire has now destroyed nearly 1,400 homes; blaze is 30 percent contained 




Posted at Sep 8 1:08 PM Posted to 








 

peter is enjoying the benefits of linking his Twitter account to Yahoo! Link your Twitter account too.




Posted at Sep 8 1:05 PM Posted to 








 

peter That awkward moment when you start telling a story & you realize no one’s listening, so you slowly fade out & pretend you never said anything. 




Posted at Sep 8 12:55 PM Posted to 








 

peter Do not do the impossible for a person who didn't do the possible for you 




Posted at Sep 8 9:50 AM Posted to 








 

peter Opinions ought to be flexible but decisions strong not rigid cos no one is an epitome of wisdom 




Posted at Aug 16 1:45 PM Posted to 








 

peter Appreciate what you HAVE before it becomes what you HAD. 




Posted at Jul 28 1:30 PM Posted to 








 

peter A tree that grows in the shade of another one will die small - Senegalese proverb 




Posted at Jul 28 10:07 AM Posted to 








 

peter To stay a long time in the water does not make you clean. 




Posted at Jul 28 9:54 AM Posted to 















Report Abuse





 



 



        
        peter's connections
    


peter only shares info with connections. Invite peter to get updates.


 


Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved


Copyright/IP Policy
 
Yahoo! Terms of Service
 
Community Guidelines
 
Privacy Policy
 
Safety
 
About Our Ads
 
Developers

 





