US: 2 Killed in Massive Texas Wildfire -- Earth Changes -- Sott.net



          Welcome to Sott.net
        


        Mon, 12 Sep 2011
      





VISITOURBOOKSTORE







































Home
About
Podcast
Forum
RSS
Archive
Register
Login











Find us on:




















Earth Changes















US: 2 Killed in Massive Texas Wildfire



MSNBC/The Associated PressTue, 06 Sep 2011 17:21 CDT





			Bastrop - More than 1,000 homes have been destroyed in at least 57 wildfires across rain-starved Texas, most of them in one devastating blaze near Austin that is being blamed for two deaths, officials said Tuesday.

Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said Tuesday he had no details about the deaths. On Sunday, a 20-year-old woman and her 18-month-old daughter were killed Sunday in an East Texas blaze.

© Jay Janner / Austin American-StatemanMassive plumes of smoke block the sky on Highway 71 east of Bastrop, Texas, on Monday Sept. 5, 2011. Gov. Rick Perry, who cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina on Monday to return to help oversee firefighting efforts in Texas, told NBC's Today that the fires were "a long way" from being under control and described the effect on people who had lost their homes as "devastating."

Texas Forest Service spokeswoman Victoria Koenig said it is too early to say how much progress was made fighting the wildfire in Bastrop County overnight, but that there were no winds early Tuesday. The fire enveloped at least 25,000 acres Monday.

"It's encouraging we don't have winds right now, not like yesterday," Koenig said early Tuesday morning. 
						
			      Even with the encouraging conditions, Koenig said it was a "tough, tough fire" that was raging through rugged terrain, including a ridge of hills.

"You can still see the hills glowing quite a bit," she said.

At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, the state capital, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said Monday. School and school-related activities were canceled Tuesday.

And NBC-affiliate station KPRC reported Tuesday that about 8,000 people had been evacuated from their homes in the Magnolia area in Montgomery County, citing fire officials. At least 80 homes and one fire truck have burned, officials said.

Tina Dulaney packed up her car, grabbed her dogs and went to the shelter at Magnolia High School, the station reported.

"Pretty scared," she told KPRC. "You just don't know. The wind's not helping. I just have to wait and see."

Evacuation orders were also in effect in Grimes and Waller counties. "What can you do? Especially with something like that that just pops up so quick and wipes out everything. At least for a hurricane or something like that, you can prepare for it. You can't prepare for a fire. There's no way," evacuee Leslie Dedeke told KHOU.

Perry told Today that more than 50 large fires were burning across the state Tuesday, up from "somewhere in the 30s" the previous day. This number included only those blazes being dealt with by federal and state authorities, not "numerous" smaller fires handled by local fire departments, he added.

"For those families who have lost everything they had, homes, possessions etc, it has been devastating for them," he added. "We're getting our people out of the way of these fires. And that's the most important thing. Obviously we'll be dealing with the tragedy here for some time to come."

He said some fires were "becoming really substantial."

"We're a long way from having these under control," Perry told Today.

He urged residents to follow evacuation orders and not put their lives in danger for the sake of their possessions. "I know leaving a home and possessions behind is a hard thing to do, but don't put lives in danger," he said.

Perry returned to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president.

He assured TODAY's Matt Lauer that he was able to deal with the fires while also running for president.

"Unfortunately in Texas, we have substantial natural disasters, whether its hurricanes, wildfires, floods, you name it, tornadoes, we've had to deal with them," Perry said.

Perry declined to say whether he would take part in a Republican presidential debate on Wednesday to stay in Texas.

"We'll deal with that when it comes up," he said. "I'm substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of."

But his campaign spokesman, Mark Miner, said in an email later Tuesday that "the governor plans on being at the debate."

Perry, a Tea Party favorite who has made a political career of railing against government spending, said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires. He also expressed frustration that equipment at Fort Hood, including bulldozers and equipment that can cut deep fissures in the earth, are not already in use. 

"Whenever you've got people hurting, when you've got lives that are in danger, in particular, I really don't care who the asset belongs to," Perry said. "If it's sitting in some yard somewhere and not helping become part of the solution, that's a problem."

The Texas Forest Service says nearly 600 of the torched homes were in Bastrop County, some 25 miles from Austin. The agency said that blaze, which has scorched some 30,000 acres, was still uncontained Tuesday. It was the most destructive fire of the year for a state that has had more than 3 million acres burned, said state emergency management chief Nim Kidd.

Some residents said they were surprised by how quickly the blaze engulfed their neighborhoods.

"We were watching TV and my brother-in-law said to come and see this," Dave Wilhelm, 38, who lives just east of Bastrop said. "All I saw was a fireball and some smoke. All of a sudden: Boom! We looked up and left."

Wilhelm returned Tuesday to find his neighbor's house and three vehicles gone, some of his own children's backyard toys destroyed but their house spared.

"Some stuff is smoldering on the lot behind us. Inside of the house, we smell like a campfire. We're definitely very lucky."

Fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee, the Bastrop blaze rapidly grew Monday, racing through rain-starved farm and ranchland.

Winds in the area gusted up to 30 mph on Monday, but dropped overnight to around 5 mph and were only expected to get up to 10 mph by afternoon, said National Weather Service forecaster Orlando Bermudez.

Drought Conditions

In Bastrop, a town of about 6,000 people along the Colorado River, huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over downtown Monday.

When winds picked up, flames flared over the tops of trees. Helicopters and planes loaded with water flew overhead, and firefighters along a state highway outside the city converged around homes catching fire.

"Waiting is the most frustrating thing," said Gina Thurman, 47, choking back tears as she sat by herself in the shade on a curb outside Ascension Catholic Church, one of several shelters in the area. "You're sitting there and you don't know anything but your house is probably burning."

Rick Blakely was among about 30 people sleeping on cots at the church. The 54-year-old said he was in a state of shock and "not expecting anything to be standing" when he returned to his home.

Strong winds coupled with drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. Dry conditions were expected to persist at least through the week, according to the National Weather Service.

The fire was far enough away from Austin that the city was not threatened, but it consumed land along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said.

The wildfire destroyed at least 476 homes, and about 250 firefighters were working around the clock using bulldozers and water trucks against the fire, Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said.

There were no immediate reports of injuries, and officials said they knew of no residents trapped in their homes.

But the blaze was "nowhere near controlled" on Monday and a separate, smaller blaze south of the city was growing larger, said Mike Fischer, the county's emergency management director. It's unclear how the fire began.

Crews have responded to nearly 21,000 wildfires in Texas since the traditional fire season began early in the year. Outdoor burning, including campfires, is prohibited in all but three of the state's 254 counties. 

"I just don't know what I'm going to do," he said. 
		











 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tweet
 Share
 



(Register to add your comments!)



Reader Comments





( No Comments )










Sections


Front Page
Earth Changes
Fire in the Sky
Health & Wellness
Science of the Spirit
Puppet Masters
Society's Child
Secret History
Science & Technology
High Strangeness
Don't Panic! Lighten Up!





RecentComments



...for yet another great psychopathy article AND for a yet another resulting psychopath-trolling exam...

polytropos








[Link]Read this to learn the truth!...

libre








[Link]...

ALIEN1








NugaBurd, it is indeed unfortunate that the style of this particular piece rubbed you the wrong way. ...

Networker








if the theory about the embassy is correct.
about f------g time i say....

bringerofbrightomens















Podcasts


Listen to ExclusiveSott Podcasts

        01:14:25
      
 New! Sott Perspectives on Cults


All Podcasts

»









View Latest »





Éiriú EolasTake BackYour Life


Stress ControlHealing, andRejuvenation Program

Proven benefits of the Éiriú Eolas Program include:
- instantly control stress in high energy situations
- detox your body resulting in pain relief
- relax and gently work through past emotional and psychological trauma
- regenerate and rejuvenate your body/mind
Éiriú Eolas will enable you to rapidly and gently access and release layers of mental, emotional and physical toxicity that stand between you and a healthy, younger feeling and younger looking body!


Presented byLaura Knight-Jadczyk
»






Knowledgeand Being



In this ground breaking multi-part video series, Laura Knight-Jadczyk discusses the history of the modern spiritual movement and the pitfalls and traps awaiting any would-be "channeler". She also provides a glimpse into the events that led to the beginnings of the "Cassiopaean Experiment".


Presented byLaura Knight-Jadczyk

»







SpecialReports



Meteorites, Asteroids, and Comets: Damages, Disasters, Injuries, Deaths, and Very Close Calls - Laura Knight-Jadczyk
Signs Meteor Supplement
Signs Supplement: The Flu Threat
Signs Supplement: Super Volcanoes






Tunguska, Psychopathy and the Sixth Extinction
Impact Hazards on a Populated Earth?
Meteorites, Asteroids, and Comets: Damages, Disasters, Injuries, Deaths, and Very Close Calls
Letters From the Edge
Tunguska, the Horns of the Moon and Evolution
Comet Biela and Mrs. O'Leary's Cow
Thirty Years of Cults and Comets
Wars, Pestilence and Witches
Cosmic Turkey Shoot
The Hazard to Civilization from Fireballs and Comets
New Light on the Black Death: The Cosmic Connection
Majesterium and the Tipping Point
Something Wicked This Way Comes
The Younger Dryas Impact Event and the Cycles of Cosmic Catastrophes - Climate Scientists Awakening
Forget About Global Warming: We're One Step From Extinction!
Climate Change Swindlers and the Political Agenda
Wake the World Up Campaign
Fire and Ice - The Day After Tomorrow






Sott.netE-mailEdition




Subscribe
»





Sott FocusListing



Sott exclusive articles and in-depth investigations
By Author »





Spreadthe Word



Share these DESKTOP PICTURES, and help us vanquish these venal and virulent vermin vanguarding vice and vouchsafing the violently vicious and voracious violation of volition!




















Ark'sQuantumQuirks




Sometimes when you are mad you are really mad
















LatestNews


 Vanuatu - Earthquake Magnitude 6.0
 6.4 quake off Vancouver Island felt by few on Peninsula
 Eastern Caribbean Prepares for Heavy Rain, Winds as Tropical Storm Maria Approaches
 US: Southwest power back on, but blackout still a mystery
 Washington, D.C., US: Anacostia mystery gunk is algae
 Germany: Earthquake Shakes the Rhineland





Pictureof the Day







Quoteof theDay
When a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight, it concentrates his mind wonderfully.

        - Samuel Johnson
      





The DotConnectorMagazine





Featured Articles

Corruption of Science in America
Percy Schmeiser vs. Monsanto
The Galileo Syndrome – Part I: The Society of Psychical Research
What Do We Really Know About the Secret Space Programs?


SUBSCRIBE to The Dot Connector Magazine!





Connectingthe Dots



A monthly exposé revealing the hidden hands behind the global impact events that shape our world and our future.
»






LAURA KNIGHT-JADCZYK AND JOE QUINN
Since the 9/11 attacks, no book has provided a
    satisfactory answer as to WHY the attacks occurred and who was ultimately responsible for
    carrying them out - until now.
BUY IT NOW!






ANDREW M. LOBACZEWSKI
Scientists living under an oppressive regime 
    decide to clinically study the founders and supporters of evil regimes to determine what common factor is at play in the rise and propagation of man's inhumanity to man.
GET A COPY!





Sott.netT-shirts



»





SupportSOTT.net



Donate once,or every month!


Click here to learnhow you can help!
»






JFK: The Debris of History
The Gladiator: John Fitzgerald Kennedy
The Bushes and The Lost King
Sim City and John F. Kennedy
John F. Kennedy and All Those "isms"
John F. Kennedy, J. Edgar Hoover, Organized Crime and the Global Village
John F. Kennedy and the Psychopathology of Politics
John F. Kennedy and the Pigs of War
John F. Kennedy and the Titans
John F. Kennedy, Oil, and the War on Terror
John F. Kennedy, The Secret Service and Rich, Fascist Texans
 John F. Kennedy and the Monolithic and Ruthless Conspiracy





Songs ofThe Times


NEW! Still You Believe
You Lied
Relic
All The World's a Stage
Detergent






Blogs




 
 
 






Gulf StreamWatch



»





OtherLanguages



Artykuly po Polsku










      Email us at






      SupportSOTT.NET
    

      E-mails sent to Sott.net become the property of Quantum Future Group, Inc and may be published without notice.
    




      Donate once - or every month!Click here to learn how you can help


Reader comments do not necessarily reflect the views of the volunteers, editors, and directors of SOTT.net or the Quantum Future Group.
Remember, we need your help to collect information on what is going on in your part of the world! Send your article suggestions to: 
Some icons appearing on this site were taken from: KDE-look.org, Afterglow, Mayosoft, Everaldo, IconDrawer, VisualPharm, IconFactory, Klukeart, Icons-land, IconShock.com 

Original content © 2002-2011 by SOTT.net/Signs of the Times. See: Fair Use Policy




