Astronauts Spot Texas Wildfires From Space | Mike Fossum & Bastrop State Park Fires | Earth Photos From Space | Our Amazing Planet



















Follow us:



























					Astronauts Spot Texas Wildfires From Space			



Sep 7, 2011 11:40 AM ET
By Clara Moskowitz, SPACE.com Senior Writer 


























































The wildfires burning in Texas are visible all the way from space, as seen in photos by astronauts on the International Space Station.




NASA astronaut Mike Fossum was particularly saddened to see the fires, because Bastrop State Park, one of the damaged areas, is a favorite spot of his.
Fossum asked Mission Control to update him about the fires, which have raged over thousands of acres in Central Texas during the past week. The fires are thought to have been spurred by winds from Tropical Storm Lee, which swirled over the Gulf of Mexico over the weekend and made landfall on the Gulf Coast.
"Did you guys confirm that the state park Bastrop is one of the directly affected areas with the fire in that region?" Fossum asked from space on Tuesday (Sept. 6). [Photos: Hurricane Irene Views From Space]
"Yes Mike, unfortunately that's true," capcom Jay Marschke replied from Houston. "The news agencies are reporting up to two-thirds of the park has been burned and hundreds of homes in the area have been destroyed."

Fossum, an "avid outdoorsman," according to NASA spokeswoman Nicole Cloutier-Lemasters, was stunned.
"Oh, wow," he said. "Wow, that's rough news. Thanks. We're really thinking about all those folks through there."
Fossum has experience as a scout leader and hiker, Cloutier-Lemasters said, and counts Bastrop State Park as one of his favorite hiking spots.
"Our thoughts and prayers are with those affected," Fossum wrote on Twitter, under the name @astro_aggie, Tuesday.
The Bastrop County Complex fire is now 30 percent contained. Texas, in the grip of one of the worst droughts in the states' history, has seen 3.5 million acres burn so far this year.
Fossum wasn't the only one in orbit affected by the news. His crewmate on the space station, Ron Garan, also tweeted about the fires. [Earth From Space: Amazing Photos by Astronaut Ron Garan]
"Prayers for those in harm's way," Garan wrote Tuesday under the name "Astro_Ron." Garan posted a series of photos of the fires from above, where wisps of gray smoke can be seen wafting away from our planet.
Garan and Fossum are currently living on the International Space Station along with one Japanese astronaut and three Russian cosmonauts. Garan was originally scheduled to return to Earth Sept. 8, but a Russian rocket failure has delayed his return to Sept. 15. Fossum is expected to fly back home in mid November.
You can follow SPACE.com senior writer Clara Moskowitz on Twitter @ClaraMoskowitz. Follow SPACE.com for the latest in space science and exploration news on Twitter @Spacedotcom and on Facebook.

Gallery: Texas Wildfires Seen from Space
Gaia: Photos of Earth From Space Tourist Guy Laliberte
Photos: Wild Images of Texas Wildfires

Â  





















Get our most popular articles delivered right to your inbox.
 Sign up for our weekly email to have the top articles of the week delivered to you. 	
Note: Your privacy is very important to us.  We will not share your e-mail with any third party without your permission.  See our full Privacy Policy.




















 


Dunhill Vacations has created this policy because of our commitment to your privacy.
Dunhill Vacations publishes various versions of Dunhill Vacation News, an opt-in newsletter of travel offers and information. Users can sign up for newsletters from our home page by providing their e-mail address. This information will not be sold to third parties.

Modify and Opt Out:
You may opt-out of use of your information as set forth above by emailing us at techsupport@dunhillvacations.com, there is also an option to unsubscribe or modify your information within every newsletter.

Tracking:
Dunhill Vacations uses cookies to deliver content specific to your interests. The cookie is a small text file that resides on your hard drive. Dunhill Vacations also works with third parties with whom we have a service agreement ("Service Providers") who use cookies to aid in the reporting of aggregate site usage statistics for Dunhill's Web sites. Such statistics are not linked to personally identifiable information. Some Dunhill Vacations advertisers use "view-through" pixels to track the effectiveness of the promotions they run on Dunhill Vacations. Such pixels lead to cookies being placed on your computer by these advertisers. Dunhill Vacations does not have control over these 3rd party cookies, and cannot access any personally identifiable information about you as a result of these cookies. Dunhill Vacations tracks individual user response (clicks) on offers on its Web sites. This information is used to better customize content and advertising for you in the future. Individual user click behavior is not shared with third parties in ways other than disclosed in this privacy statement.

Related Mailings:
Dunhill Vacations reserves the right to send you certain communications relating to service or products, including administrative messages, and periodic product announcements associated with your newsletter or e-mail product subscription(s), as long as you remain a subscriber to one of our newsletters or e-mail products.

Refer a Friend Program:
We may from time to time conduct a referral service to introduce people you know to our Site and services. If you choose to use our referral service to tell a friend about our Site, we will ask you for your friend's name and email address. We will automatically send your friend an email inviting him or her to visit the Site. Dunhill Vacations stores this information for the purpose of sending this email and tracking the success of our referral program. Your friend may contact us at techsupport@dunhillvacations.com to request that we remove this information from our database.

Third Party Offers:
Dunhill Vacations, Inc shares personally identifiable information with Dunhill Vacations’ Parent to send you special offers and promotions that we think might be of interest. If you do not want Dunhill Vacations, Inc. to use the information you provide with our Parent Company, you can make your preference known by e-mailing: editor@dunhillvacations.com

 From time to time, we work with third parties. You may receive an email from another travel company sent by Dunhill Vacations. We do not share Personally Identifiable Information with Third Parties; the emails are always controlled by Dunhill Vacations. From time to time Dunhill Vacations announces voluntary promotional programs which include promotional incentives for subscribers. These programs usually require personally identifiable information (ex: name, mailing address or frequent flyer account numbers) to be submitted for those subscribers who wish to participate. Depending on the promotion, this information may be shared, upon the explicit opt-in of the subscriber, with external third parties for the purpose of fulfilling the promotional components of the program, for example with an airline for the awarding of frequent flyer miles to a subscriber's account. Subscribers who do not wish this information to be disclosed to third parties may decline participation in these optional programs. Any promotional program which includes the sharing of information with a third party will have such a disclosure clearly described in the program's description and rules.

Overview:
We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server, and to administer our Web site. IP addresses are associated with your e-mail address and other personally identifiable information for the purpose of documenting that you explicitly signed up (opted-in) for our e-mail newsletters. In order to provide our users a seamless experience, some pages on our site may be hosted by Service Providers. Dunhill Vacations contains links to other sites. Dunhill Vacations is not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. Dunhill Vacations encourages our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of each and every Web site that collects personally identifiable information. This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this Web site. Dunhill Vacations reserves the right to add to or modify this Policy simply by posting such addition or modification on the Dunhill Vacations Web site. If at any point we decide to use personally identifiable information in a manner materially different from that stated at the time it was collected, we will notify users by way of an e-mail or via a prominent notice on our site.

Legal Disclaimer:
Though we make every effort to preserve your privacy we may need to disclose personal information when required by law wherein we have a good-faith belief that such action is necessary to comply with a current judicial proceeding, a court order or legal process served on our Web site. Questions? E-mail us at editor@dunhillvacations.com

Dunhill Vacations, Inc.
1802 N. University Dr.
Suite 102-325
Plantation, FL 33322

CLOSE



















Pages



Company Info


About the Site 


Contact Us 


Advertise with Us 


Using our Content


Terms & Conditions 


Privacy Policy 







TechMediaNetwork Properties



TechMediaNetwork
Newsarama
TopTenREVIEWS
iPadNewsDaily
SPACE.com
BusinessNewsDaily
LiveScience
MyHealthNewsDaily
OurAmazingPlanet
NorthOrion
TechNewsDaily
SecurityNewsDaily
InnovationNewsDaily
Life's Little Mysteries
Herman Street








Join our Mailing List











FOLLOW US ON...








              Copyright © 2011 
TechMediaNetwork.com 
              All rights reserved.
            

























			E-mail Address:
		




			Confirm E-mail Address:
		




			Note: Your privacy is very important to us. We will not share your e-mail address with any third party without your permission. See our full Privacy Policy.
		






 














