Central Texas Wildfire Updates September 8, 2011  |  KUT.org








KUT.org
Experience Austin Texas



PlaylistCactus CafeContact Us

FacebookTwitterFlickrYouTubeRSS71˚FDonate Now!



Listen
Programs
News
Music
Calendar
Storyboard
Get Involved
Support
Tech
About


0


 

 
Main Tech Page
Tech Photo Blog


 
How to Listen 


 
Mobile Guide 


 
RSS & Podcasts 


 
Systems Status Page 



 

 
Launch Player
Playlist
Mobile Guide 


 
How to Listen 


 
On-Air Schedules 


 
RSS & Podcasts 



 

 
Main News Page 
About KUT News 
Contact KUT News 


 
News Blog 


 
Changing Austin 
Where I'm From 


 
Texas Political Parlor 


 

Shuttle 




 

 
 Main Programs Page 


Programs A-Z 


Schedules 

Playlist


 

Sonic IDs 



 

O 'Dark 30 



 

Arts Eclectic 



 

Connect with KUT 




 

 

Main Music Page 


About KUT Music 


Contact KUT Music 


Submit Your Music 

Playlist


 

Austin Music Minute 


Texas Music Matters 


Song of the day 


This Week in Texas Music History 



 

Features 


Off the Record  


Armadillo Oral History Project 



 

Music Archive 

 Videos


Top Plays 



 

Cactus Cafe 


 

 

 

Main Calendar Page 


Submit an Event 




 

 

Main Get Involved Page 


About Get Involved 



 

Submit a PSA 




 

 

Main Storyboard Austin Page 


About Storyboard Austin 



 

Portrait of an Artist


Around Town



 

Arts Eclectic 



 
Views and Brews 



 

What We're Watching




 

 Membership   

Main Membership Page 

 Membership FAQ  
 Sustaining Membership  

Leadership Circle 

 Business Circle 



  

Capital Campaign 


Car Donations 


Individual Membership


Planned Giving 


Donate 



Sponsorships 

Program Sponsorships 

 Sponsor Directory 




Volunteer with KUT 
 

Volunteer opportunities 




 

 

About KUT 


KUT FAQ 



 

Press  


Advisory Board 



 

Jobs 



 

KUT Public Broadcast Center 



 

Cactus Cafe 




 

Listen Now











Events From Our Sponsors


 View all events »
KUT Sponsor





You only need to login to comment on stories or submit events for our event calendar.  Not logging in will not prevent you from listening to the KUT Media Player or accessing the rest of our content.

Username:

Password:

Forgot your password?
Register 








Music Quick LinksContact KUT Music
Submit Your Music
How to Listen
Music Archive
Song of the Day
Tweets from @KUTAUSTIN

Rebuilding Homes, Bringing Jobs to Bastrop: As firefighters and other responders spend yet another day putting o... http://t.co/HFQg6bU 2 hours ago
Bastrop Fire 50 Percent Contained: “Gaining Ground Every Hour”: As much of the United States reflects on the coo... http://t.co/yskl8K8 19 hours ago
Wildfire Updates Saturday, September 10: The White House has signed a federal disaster declaration for Texas in ... http://t.co/vqlnVOk 1 day ago

KUT News Blog 
Stay current with the state and local news. Check out the KUT News blog for quick updates throughout the day.
» read more

170 Million Americans for Public Broadcast 
KUT has joined with hundreds of public media organizations across the country to educate the public on the importance of federal funding for public media. 170 Million Americans for Public Broadcasting is a national grassroots effort to rally the support of the 170 million Americans who listen to or use public media each month. We believe in the public-private partnership that has built public broadcasting—and KUT—into the essential service that it is today. To learn more check out our FAQ.
KUT’s Song of the Day 
Check out our Song of the Day archive and download your favorite songs.
» read more
Get Involved! 
Roll up your sleeves and Get Involved! Each month, we feature a Central Texas non-profit organization that needs your support. Learn more about the organization and their cause and find out how YOU can get involved in our community! »Get Involved now
KUT on Youtube  
We're huge on Youtube! Check out all the videos you can handle from news, showcases at the Cactus, music festivals and much much more.
KUT Car Donation

Got a car you need off your hands? Our car donation program is an easy way to contribute.» read more








News 
Central Texas Wildfire Updates September 8, 2011
September 8, 2011 9:39 am by: Dee Kapila

KUT News

Update at 5:36 p.m.
Here’s where we stand this evening:
The Bastrop Complex fire is still 30 percent contained at about 34,000 acres. Officials say firefighters are focusing on saving undamaged structures. They hope to get a big helping hand from a DC-10 jet airliner that will begin dropping retardant tomorrow morning, up to 12,000 gallons at a time. Another update on Bastrop isn’t expected until around 10:30 a.m. Friday. (Story)
Some Bastrop residents were allowed to return to their homes today. Bastrop County’s emergency management coordinator Mike Fisher said “the risk is so slight” of flare ups in those areas that he’s confident they’ll be safe.
Counselors have been helping Bastrop evacuees cope with the stress of the situation. (Story)
The wildfire in Steiner Ranch is now 80 percent contained, up from 75 percent this morning. The Pedernales One/Spicewood fire is 100 percent contained.
Conditions are said to be improving in the 6,000 acre Bastrop State Park, all but 100 acres of which has been touched by flames. Firefighters were able to protect most of the historic Depression-era buildings that dot the park. (Story)
You already knew it was a hot summer in Texas. Turns out, it was the hottest summer ever recorded in the United States. 
The American Red Cross will distribute supplies to Bastrop County fire victims until 8 p.m. at the Home Depot at 112 Hunters Crossing, Bastrop, TX  78602.
Want to help? Do512.com has the most authoritative list so far on shows benefiting wildfire victims. The Facebook page Central Texas Wildfire Recovery lists events. You can also now donate $10 to the United Way’s Central Texas Wildfire Relief fund by texting “WILDFIRE” to 85944.
If you haven’t seen it already, check out this satellite photo of the Bastrop burn zone.
Update at 3:43 p.m.
People whose homes or businesses were ravaged by wildfire are exempt from paying sales tax on some fire recovery-related expenses. The Texas Comptroller says that includes the cost of repairs, charges for cutting dead trees, and services to restore damaged furniture. Full details here.
The air quality in Austin is forecast to be poor tomorrow. The Clean Air Force of Central Texas has issued a Level Orange Ozone Watch for Friday.
The United States Forest Service says a DC-10 airplane with a 12,000 gallon tank will begin dropping fire retardant tomorrow on the wildfire zones.
The Pedernales One/Spicewood fire is now fully contained, but the Pedernales Fire Department needs donations for its firefighters. They’re asking for Vitamin Water Zero, pigskin work gloves and Clif Bars. More details on their Facebook page.
The Lower Colorado River Authority expanded an area of Lake Travis that is being used by planes and helicopters to grab water for firefighting efforts in Central Texas. The lake is now closed for five miles, from Mansfield Dam to Mile Marker 5.
Update at 2:31 p.m.
The wildfire situation is said to be improving at Bastrop State Park, all but 100 acres of which was scorched by the blaze. Fire crews working long hours managed to save most of the historic 1930s-era structures in the park.
Speaking of long hours, check out these photos of firefighters working the Union Chapel wildfire. Some of them worked 60 hours to contain the 900 acre blaze.
This satellite photo of the Bastrop burn zone gives us another glimpse at the scope of the devastation. The blackened area is about 18 miles long about six miles wide.
Update at 1:09 p.m.
Some Bastrop evacuees will be allowed to return to their homes when police remove roadblocks at 2 p.m. Here is a list of the roads being opened. 
Update at 11:58 a.m.
Bastrop officials say the wildfire is still “30 percent contained” but that language may not paint the full picture of the progress being made. Read the story here.
The latest details on the Bastrop Complex fire:

35,000 acres have been scorched. The burn zone is about 18 miles long and 6 miles wide.
About 5,000 people are evacuated. Close to 400 are in shelters.
Bluebonnet Electric released this map showing when it hopes to restore power to the area. The map will be updated as new information becomes available. The utility plans to add a restoration timeline for Tahitian Village sometime tomorrow.
The Texas Forest Service says it is not looking for volunteer pilots to fly a DC-10 plane stationed at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport. A spokesman said the plane cannot fly until Friday, because a retardant dispersal system is still being installed.
The Union Chapel fire in Cedar Creek is now under control, and re-entry is occurring today.

Animal control officers went into the evacuation zone to rescue abandoned pets yesterday. Read more about that and see pictures here.
Bastrop County emergency officials released a new fire map this morning on their Facebook page.
Update 7:50 a.m.
We’re learning more about the devastation in Bastrop County. Bastrop’s Emergency Management Center told KUT News this morning that 1,386 homes have been destroyed in the Bastrop area.
InciWeb has posted a Google map showing where the Bastrop fire is, you can take a look at that here.
 Update 6:15 a.m.

The Texas Forest Service says the larger fire in Bastrop County is still 30 percent contained as of late last night.
J.J. Wittig, an Assistant Fire Chief with the Oak Hill Fire Department, is helping to oversee the fires in Austin/Travis County. He says while the Spicewood Fire is 100 percent contained, firefighters will probably still be there for a few more days to put out fires inside the perimeter and to control hot spots.

 Earlier:

Bastrop Middle School did stay open as a shelter last night but it will be closing as a shelter this morning.
The Bastrop information line says five other shelters will remain open for fire victims: Celebration Church LBA, Ascension Catholic Church in Bastrop, Bastrop Community Outreach Church, the Smithville Recreation Center and Elgin Family Worship
Bastrop County officials have posted a partial list of the addresses of homes they have confirmed as destroyed by the wildfire there. Keep in mind this is only a partial list and officials will be updating it as they get more information. Find the list and a map on Bastrop County’s website
Members of Texas Task Force 1 are conducting a search of the fire area- looking for victims, animals, and biological or ecological hazards
Bastrop and Smithville ISD have canceled classes for the rest of the week
Burn bans continue in Bastrop, Blanco, Caldwell, Hays, Travis, and Williamson Counties

Share|







No comments yet.
 


Add your response
Comments are moderated. They are posted at the discretion of KUT if they stick to the topic and contribute to the conversation. They will not be published if they contain or link to abusive material, personal attacks, profanity or spam.


Click here to cancel reply.

You must be logged in to post a comment.






KUT Sponsor

 Become a KUT Sponsor


About 
About KUT
KUT FAQ
Support
Press
Advisory Board
Employment
KUT Public Broadcast Center
Cactus Cafe
University of Texas at Austin
College of Communication




Contact 
512-471-1631
kut@kut.org
Facebook
Twitter
Parking/Directions


Listen 
How to listen
Mobile

Programs 
Programs A-Z
Schedules
Playlist




News 
About KUT News
News blog
Contact KUT News

Music 
About KUT Music
Playlist
Live Archives
Song of the day
Austin Music Minute
Cactus cafe




Events 
Calendar
Submit an event

Connect 
Social Media
RSS

Storyboard Austin 
About




Support 
Membership FAQ
Sustaining Membership
Business Circle
Leadership Circle
Program sponsorships
Donate
Capital Campaign
Volunteer
Car donations
Planned giving

Legal 
Privacy policy







A service of the College of Communication at the University of Texas at Austin©2011 KUT / Design by Creative Suitcase / Development by Go9Media and KUT




 


