Sorting Your Trash for Better A Environment


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising








Sorting Your Trash for Better A Environment











We have been used to simply putting waste in its place but today, you have to sort it out and separate them so that they can be disposed of quickly. For sure you garbage man will not be the one to do it for you since you can just imagine the millions of trash they will have to sort out if they need to do the extra effort.
Sorting out the trash is really an added effort on our part but does not necessarily have to be difficult. We know which should be placed to which. Plastics, metals and biodegradable stuff that we no longer use should be placed separately to allow the garbage collectors to know where to place which. 
It may sound tedious but overall, you just have to classify trash and know how to dispose of them these days. It will really make a difference not only for the garbage collection companies but the entire world in the end. 
According to the New York Times, the city of Yokohama recently doubled the number of garbage categories to 10. It provides residents with a 27-page booklet on how to sort their trash. In the sort scheme, lipstick goes into burnables and lipstick tubes (after the contents have been used up) into “small metals” or plastics. Kettle under 12″ go into small metals, but over 12″ they go into bulky refuse.




(Source) Treehugger 




No related posts.
	Tags: added effort, entire world, garbage collection, garbage collectors, garbage man, lipstick tubes, metals, new york times, page booklet, plastics, trash, yokohama
POSTED BY Rokai on May 23 under Eco-friendly, Garbage and Waste




Comments Off





Leave a Comment
If you would like to make a comment, please fill out the form below.
You must be logged in to post a comment. 












Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers

 

 Eco-friendly Tips Feed7 oil workers found alive in Gulf of MexicoDeath toll reaches 15,782 from great quake-tsunami in Japan6.0-magnitude quake hits VanuatuBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy











Tag cloud


tropical storm lee
hurricane irene
national hurricane center
green
environment
prnewswire
global warming
christmas
barack obama
climate change
mother earth
carbon footprint
global warning
lifestyle
shopping
reuters
ecofriendly
eco
clothes
atmosphere
consumers
epicenter
pr newswire
saving energy
Recycling
organic cotton
recycled materials
earth
Eco-friendly
money
Categories 
Alternative Energy (115)

Animals (64)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (151)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (83)

Eco Gadgets (86)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1078)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (408)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (26)

Fuel (7)

Garbage and Waste (85)

Global Warning (121)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (70)

Lighting (27)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (67)

Press Releases (30)

Recycling (192)

Solar Power (58)

Transportation (67)

Water (33)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Count per Day224514Total reads:1403Reads today:67454Total visitors:253Visitors today:7255Visitors per month:555Visitors per day:3Visitors currently online:Articles of Interestozone layerdrinking waterwood deckschangee wastePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




