Perry witnesses wildfires




















 


 












Home
Program Schedule
Staff
 

Music

Jazz
Piano Jazz
Riverwalk
Musical Starstreams
Infrequent Exposure
North Texas Jukebox
Radio Voyager
And Seldom is Heard
La Pura Onda
 

News and Sports

News from KNTU
Sports from KNTU
McKinney in Focus
The Late Edition
News 8 at 6
dialogue
In Black America
 

Podcasts

Denton ISD Football
UNT Football
UNT Men's Basketball
UNT Women's Basketball
UNT Women's Softball
 

Weather

Radar from Channel 8

Denton Weather from NWS

Local Radar from NWS

Statewide Radar from NWS

KNTU Tower Cam
Denton Storm Sirens
Weather Facts
Ozone Chart
Wind Chill Chart
Heat Index Chart
 

Special Features

The Live Wire
NT Notebook
StarDate
Family Health
Traffic
Twitter
 











 








 










					Perry witnesses wildfires			

 

 

 






			Written by The Associated Press		
		  
	



BASTROP, Texas (AP) Texas Governor Rick Perry said Tue., Sept. 6, a 100-member search team will comb Bastrop County to search for possible victims from a massive wildfire already blamed for two deaths. Perry said the search will begin Wednesday morning. The blaze has destroyed more than 600 homes in and around Bastrop, and authorities said two people have died in one of the most destructive Texas wildfires in history.Perry said he deployed Texas Task Force 1, the state's elite search team, to help local authorities.The team includes a dozen search canines.Texas Task Force 1 was also sent to New York following the Sept. 11 attacks and New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.Wildfires have scorched more than 45 square miles around Bastrop.Perry reviewed some of the devastation around Austin from a helicopter Tuesday. Perry has not yet said if he plans to take part in a Republican presidential debate in California or stay in Texas to deal with the wildfires that officials said have destroyed more than 1,000 homes in a week. Perry said he is "substantially more concerned'' about the people affected by the wildfires than he is about the debate planned for Wednesday. The governor said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires and expressed frustration that firefighting assets at Fort Hood are not already in use. Perry interrupted his presidential campaign in South Carolina to return to Texas on Monday.Texas Forest Service officials said the 600 homes destroyed in Bastrop County was the worst damage by a single wildfire since the late 1990s, which is as far back as the state's records go. The four worst:September 2011: 600 homes destroyed in Bastrop CountyApril 2011: 168 homes destroyed in Palo Pinto County near Possum Kingdom LakeDecember 2005: 116 homes destroyed in Callahan CountyApril 2009: 69 homes destroyed in Montague County



< Prev


					 
				

Next >






		Last Updated on Tuesday, 06 September 2011 22:03	


 













 






					Now Playing on KNTU
				








					88.1 The One - KNTU-FM -- 








					The Last 10 on KNTU
				








10. James Moody --Take the  A  Train9. Benny Goodman & His Orchestra --Sing, Sing, Sing8. Giacomo Gates --Is that Jazz7. Scotty Barnhart --Giant Steps6. Charlie Christian --Benny's Bugle5. George Shearing Quintet --Fly Me to the Moon4. Art Pepper --Tin Tin Deo3. Jay Ashby & Steve Davis --Mistaken Identity2. Jim Cutler --For Real1. Jose Rizo --CruzanClick Here for the Last 7 Days 








					Video from the AP
				




















					KNTU Tower Cam
				





















					Radar from Channel 8
				




















					KNTU's Real Jazz
				












 















Donate | Underwriting Opportunities | About | Contact | KNTU Alumni Registration | UNT Student Applications
AA / EOE / ADA / Privacy Statement | Etc. 















