Progressive News Daily - Progressive Political News with World & National News



Progressive News Daily
Progressive Political News with World & National News












How Special Ops Copied al-Qaida to Kill It

By Spencer Ackerman
 Wired.com
One of the greatest ironies of the 9/11 Era: while politicians, generals and journalists lined up to denounce al-Qaida as a brutal band of fanatics, one commander thought its organizational structure was kind of brilliant. He set to work rebuilding an obscure military entity into a lethal, agile, secretive and highly networked command — essentially, the United States’ very own al-Qaida. It became the most potent weapon the U.S. has against another terrorist attack.
That was the work of Stanley McChrystal. He is best known as the general who lost his command in Afghanistan after his staff shit-talked the Obama administration to Rolling Stone.
Inescapable as that public profile may be, it doesn’t begin to capture the impact he made on the military. McChrystal’s fingerprints are all over the Joint Special Operations Command, the elite force that eventually killed Osama bin Laden. As the war on terrorism evolves into a series of global shadow wars, JSOC and its partners — the network McChrystal painstakingly constructed — are the ones who wage it.
These days, McChrystal travels around the country to talk about his leadership style. His insights reveal a lot about how the JSOC became the Obama team’s go-to counterterrorism group. “In bitter, bloody fights in both Afghanistan and Iraq,” McChrystal has written, “it became clear to me and to many others that to defeat a networked enemy we had to become a network ourselves.” (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Al-Qaeda, U.S. Military |   Comments Off


Rick Perry’s Social Security Extremism: Why It Will Sink Him

by Matt Taibbi
 Rolling Stone
Presidential debates aren’t often interesting, but last week’s GOP “standoff” was – a little bit, anyway. It was a little like that final scene in Rounders where Matt Damon draws cowboys and takes out half of Teddy KGB’s stack on the first hand. The field did the same thing to Perry last night, taking out one of his legs in his coming-out party.
And just like that Damon-Malkovitch no-limit showdown, the game is basically up once you have a huge advantage. In poker, once you have a huge stack, the rest of the way, all you have to do is lean on the guy, and he falls over.
In politics, it’s the same. Once a candidate like Perry comes out of the gate threatening Social Security, the game is up. All you have to do from there is make him say it, over and over again. Romney and Hunstman will obviously do just that. They have the next six months to make sure every elderly and soon-to-be elderly person in America knows that Rick Perry wants to take their checks away.

The other candidates ganged up on Perry last night and attacked him, in essence, from the left, trying to paint him as someone who will take away popular programs. The situation reminded me a little of 2004, when other Democrats suddenly started attacking a surging Howard Dean, calling him a wimp and a socialist who was “too liberal” to win a general election. Hackish grinders like Kerry turned Dean’s antiwar stance (which happened to be morally right) into a political albatross, forcing him to own it in every public appearance while highlighting his own army cred. (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Republicans, Rick Perry |   Comments Off


‘Spartacus’ star Andy Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39

By ANDREW DALTON

Andy Whitfield, who played the title role in the hit cable series “Spartacus: Blood and Sand,” has died at age 39, according to representatives and family.
Whitfield died Sunday in Sydney, Australia, 18 months after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, manager Sam Maydew told reporters.
“On a beautiful sunny Sydney spring morning, surrounded by his family, in the arms of his loving wife, our beautiful young warrior Andy Whitfield lost his 18 month battle with lymphoma cancer,” Whitfield’s wife Vashti said in a statement. “He passed peacefully surrounded by love. Thank you to all his fans whose love and support have help carry him to this point. He will be remembered as the inspiring, courageous and gentle man, father and husband he was.”
Andy Whitfield — who was born in Wales and moved to Australia in 1999 — was a virtual unknown when he was cast as the legendary Thracian slave in “Spartacus,” a role made famous by Kirk Douglas in the 1960 Stanley Kubrick film. (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Entertainment, Obituary |   Comments Off


Once Upon a Time in Mississippi

BY Michael Atkinson
 In These Times
The hit film “The Help” proves, yet again, that Hollywood can’t resist placing white people at the center of racial struggles.
A fascinating idea: White racism is a problem that white people suffer, too.
The hullabaloo over The Help this summer was impossible to miss, and just as absurd. The bestselling novel was itself a chick-lit sop endeavoring to explore race relations in early-’60s Mississippi, but it has nothing on the film, which ramps up every cute, convenient and absurdly feel-good reflex into a Ron Howard-esque froth. No one has been surprised by the film’s slack middle-class sentimentality, but some observers were apparently taken aback—enough so to fill Sunday newspaper think-piece columns, in any case—by the focus on a white heroine (played by cartoon-eyed, alabaster-cheeked Emma Stone) in a film taking on Southern bigotry in the civil-rights era.
Seriously? In the pundits’ defense, it was a terribly slow movie summer, with plenty of cheap ink expended on predictable sequels and superheroes. But the appearance of The Help felt like a symptom of national amnesia, just as much for the reaction to its historical intent (much of the cant seemed shocked, shocked, by the very idea of the South’s once-endemic caste system) as for its Caucasian-centric scenario.
How dare Hollywood make a film about Jim Crow and segregation and center it on a white girl? As Nelson George put it gingerly in the New York Times, “[T]he film’s candy-coated cinematography and anachronistic super-skinny Southern belles are part of a strategy that buffers viewers from the era’s violence.” Buffering viewers from unpleasantries is one way to look at it. Passive-aggressive racism is another. (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Entertainment |   Comments Off


New to the Neighborhood

by Sarah L. Courteau
 The Wilson Quarterly
How can you be called an urban pioneer when you move to an inner-city
 neighborhood where families have lived for generations?
A year ago I moved into a row house in northeast Washington, D.C., two miles from the Capitol. I paid $85,000, a price so low it’s a punch line in a city where the average home sells for more than $600,000. The hot water heater was missing, and the bathroom tub drained into a downstairs closet. My house inspector, a dead ringer for the gravel-voiced actor Sam Elliott, tramped silently from room to room, occasionally pausing to pronounce, “It’s not proper.” The house was in foreclosure and had been vacant for a couple of years, so when I found crayons under the old carpet, I was spared the guilt of imagining them in still-young fingers. But once, someone had loved this place. The backyard bloomed with rosebushes staked with weathered shoelaces. With an FHA-backed loan and a savvy contractor, I gutted the house and renovated it. I found myself realizing a dream I’d assumed was miles out of reach: I was a homeowner.
A white, single professional in my thirties, I moved into a neighborhood of modest houses that is almost 90 percent black and where about a third of the population lives below the poverty line. I’m a gentrifier, a category of urban resident that has become a lightning rod for debates about the evolution of our cities. Last year, a study published in the Journal of Urban Economics found evidence of gentrification during the 1990s in the majority of the country’s 72 largest metropolitan areas. But few places match the galloping pace of gentrification in the nation’s capital. In the last 10 years, Washington’s population has grown by five percent, after steadily shrinking since 1950. The white population is up by nearly a third. Since the 1960s blacks have been a majority in the District of Columbia, but that balance will likely shift in the next few years. (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Democrats Fret Aloud Over Obama’s Re-election

The New York Times
Democrats are expressing growing alarm about President Obama’s re-election prospects and, in interviews, are openly acknowledging anxiety about the White House’s ability to strengthen the president’s standing over the next 14 months.
Elected officials and party leaders at all levels said their worries have intensified as the economy has displayed new signs of weakness. They said the likelihood of a highly competitive 2012 race is increasing as the Republican field, once dismissed by many Democrats as too inexperienced and conservative to pose a serious threat, has started narrowing to two leading candidates, Mitt Romney and Rick Perry, who have executive experience and messages built around job creation.
And in a campaign cycle in which Democrats had entertained hopes of reversing losses from last year’s midterm elections, some in the party fear that Mr. Obama’s troubles could reverberate down the ballot into Congressional, state and local races.
“In my district, the enthusiasm for him has mostly evaporated,” said Representative Peter A. DeFazio, Democrat of Oregon. “There is tremendous discontent with his direction.” (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Dogs and cats now living in harmony, pigs fly, Conservatives join liberals in opposing Obama’s payroll tax cut extension

By Russell Berman
 The Hill.com
President Obama’s push to extend a payroll tax cut has united a rare combination of conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats in opposition.
When Obama first pushed to include the proposal in a tax package in December, House liberals said the tax holiday would threaten the Social Security trust fund, which is maintained through the payroll levy. Now that he wants to extend and deepen the tax cut, a number of House Republicans are making the same argument.
“It is a horrible idea,” said Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX), chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. He said it was wrong to diminish the amount Americans pay into Social Security at a time when the program is at risk of insolvency.
With bipartisan support in December, Congress approved a one-year reduction in the employee share of the payroll tax, to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent. Obama proposed in his speech to Congress that the tax be lowered to 3.1 percent for both employers and employees through 2012.
While the moves add to the deficit, the administration has said the trust fund would not be affected because the money would be shifted from the general fund and because the change is temporary. (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Sea Radiation from Fukushima Seen Triple of Prior Estimate

The Scientific American
Radioactive material released into the sea in the Fukushima nuclear power plant crisis is more than triple the amount estimated by plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Co, Japanese researchers say.
Japan’s biggest utility estimated around 4,720 trillion becquerels of cesium-137 and iodine-131 was released into the Pacific Ocean between March 21 and April 30, but researchers at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA) put the amount 15,000 trillion becquerels, or terabecquerels.
Government regulations ban shipment of foodstuff containing over 500 becquerels of radioactive material per kg.
Takuya Kobayashi, a researcher at the agency, said on Friday the difference in figures was probably because his team measured airborne radioactive material that fell into the ocean in addition to material from contaminated water that leaked from the plant.
He believed Tepco excluded radiation that originally came from airborne material. The report does not include cesium-134 as the research group initially lacked resources to measure it, meaning the amount of estimated radioactive material will increase with further calculations. (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Nuclear power |   Comments Off


FDA Advisers Call for Revised Labels for Osteoporosis Drugs

By Steven Reinberg

U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisers recommended Friday that osteoporosis drugs such as Fosamax, Actonel, Boniva and Reclast come with revised labels, clarifying how long a patient should take a drug before potential health risks set in.
The drugs, known as bisphosphonates, are taken to prevent fractures related to postmenopausal osteoporosis. But researchers have linked long-term use with a small risk of unusual fractures of the thigh bone, death of the jawbone (osteonecrosis of the jaw) and possibly esophageal cancer.
By a 17-6 vote, the FDA advisers recommended that the drug labels — or package inserts — should be clarified, detailing the best duration of use for each drug. But the advisers did not offer specific wording changes; the label wording could vary for each drug, the Associated Press reported.
The revised labels should “be very clear that efficacy may fall off after a period of time, perhaps five years,” panelist Dr. Lewis Nelson, director of the medical toxicology fellowship program at New York University, said after the vote, Bloomberg News reported. “Serious concerns have been raised about risk, and those need to be continually evaluated as well.” (more)

September 12th, 2011  | Posted in Health Care, health News |   Comments Off


America Remembers 9/11 – The Photos Say It All

These photos were culled from various sources
 Progressive News Daily









September 11th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


In Remembrance of September 11, 2001



 
 
 

September 11th, 2011  | Posted in terrorism, Tragedy |   Comments Off


Rick Perry and the Power of Stupid

By Bruce Lindner
 Addicting Info.org

Up until three weeks ago, the race for pole position amongst the Republicans candidates was firmly in the hands of Mitt Romney. Then Governor Perry of Texas threw his Stetson in the ring, and suddenly Mitt Romney is trailing Perry by two to one in the latest polling.
How can that be? The guy looks, acts and talks like George W. Bush 2.0, minus the smarts.
Mitt Romney, the chameleon-like ex-Governor of Massachusetts, will say anything, do anything and be anything necessary to become the next president. He can be a liberal when necessary, or a conservative, but he’s always a transparent phony. The lunatic fringe of the GOP, which has become the rudder steering the HMS Republican, will have nothing to do with Romney. His record on healthcare in MA, his past stance on abortion rights (give him five minutes, it’ll change again), and his recent comments on climate change have eliminated him from the running as far as they’re concerned. That made Michele Bachmann the Tea Party favorite by default. Following her coronation as winner of the Iowa Straw Poll (Lol!!), she went on the road, stumbling here and there, but the Tea Party sopped it up. She was the ideal candidate for them – if only she didn’t make so many strident comments, if only the media would stop asking her those trick questions about American history, and if only she could win. But she was the best they had, so they stuck with her.
Then along came the Texas Juggernaut, and her aspirations faded into the sunset, at supersonic speed I might add. Almost overnight, Bachmann went from first to a distant third, and her top two campaign officers jumped ship. Rick Perry’s “charisma” was just too much for either Bachmann or Romney to compete with, at least amongst the Tea Party (come next year, it’ll be interesting to see if a Tea Party-favored candidate can prevail against the will of the party movers and shakers — the Karl Roves, etc.) (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Rick Perry |   Comments Off


Amid mud, security Flight 93 dedication begins

The Associated Press
 via YAHOO! News
YAHOO! News in tandem with The Associated Press have put together a remarkable number of stories, photographs and memories of the events that took place September 11, 2001. You can find the home page called “9/11 Remembered” HERE. – JS
SHANKSVILLE, PA — A somber ceremony honoring the heroism of the 40 passengers and crew aboard Flight 93 on Sept. 11 is continuing with a reading of their names and the ringing of bells.
Vice President Joe Biden and former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, along with numerous relatives of the passengers and crew of United Flight 93, listened as each name was read under gray skies in a field soggy from rain all week in rural Pennsylvania.
Speakers at the dedication of the first phase of the $62 million Flight 93 National Memorial also include Gordon Felt, president of Families of Flight 93. His brother Edward telephoned a friend to report the flight was being hijacked.
Sarah McLachlan was also set to sing.

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Free Trade Defeats All Stimulus

By Kent Welton
 OpEdNews.com
No matter how much debt-money we throw at the problems caused by forced free trade and debt-money, the problem continues to worsen because we have further to fall, and we are being forced to fall further due to the undemocratic banking and trade regimes we continue to suffer under.
For some perspective on “free trade” I include here a portion of my chapter on Growthism and Free Trade from CAP-Com, The Economics Of Balance, written in 1995, that explains the root problems in “our” economy.
Free trade is a noble goal and objective. However, in a still very disparate and undemocratic world, it is how we arrive at this or any other end, and whether or not the majority decide the objective and shape the result, that makes all the difference and defines true freedom.
Trade policy is not simply a matter of nationalism versus internationalism, or protectionism versus exposure-ism, it is first one of democracy or oligarchy and who defines the terms.  Also, a “free trade” without a freedom not to trade – and adjust for national differences, democratic preferences, human rights, local food and resource necessities, and eco-system impacts – is nothing less than a forced and dismal trade.
Today’s “free trade” policies were defined, designed, and effectively imposed by ruling elites.  Indeed, the current GATT/WTO regime amounts to nothing less than a top-down neo-slavery arranged by stateless capital and mega-corporations, particularly in the Uruguay Round. (more)


September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


F-16 pilot was ready to give her life on Sept. 11

By Steve Hendrix
 The Washington Post
Late in the morning of the Tuesday that changed everything, Lt. Heather “Lucky” Penney was on a runway at Andrews Air Force Base and ready to fly. She had her hand on the throttle of an F-16 and she had her orders: Bring down United Airlines Flight 93. The day’s fourth hijacked airliner seemed to be hurtling toward Washington. Penney, one of the first two combat pilots in the air that morning, was told to stop it.
The one thing she didn’t have as she roared into the crystalline sky was live ammunition. Or missiles. Or anything at all to throw at a hostile aircraft.
Except her own plane. So that was the plan.
Because the surprise attacks were unfolding, in that innocent age, faster than they could arm war planes, Penney and her commanding officer went up to fly their jets straight into a Boeing 757.
“We wouldn’t be shooting it down. We’d be ramming the aircraft,” Penney recalls of her charge that day. “I would essentially be a kamikaze pilot.”
For years, Penney, one of the first generation of female combat pilots in the country, gave no interviews about her experiences on Sept. 11 (which included, eventually, escorting Air Force One back into Washington’s suddenly highly restricted airspace). (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


Banks Have Hissy Fit, Cancel Meeting With Attorneys General Due to FHFA Mortgage Litigation

Naked Capitalism
Yours truly has said for months that the negotiations among major banks, state attorneys general, and Federal regulators to reach a settlement of various types of mortgage liability were not going to result in a meaningful deal. Further confirmation of our views came today, via Time’s Swampland (hat tip Lisa Epstein).
The five biggest banks cancelled a session today with the state attorneys general. This move was apparently to object to the FHFA lawsuits filed against 17 banks which Dave Dayen penciled out at $60 billion in potential liability.
This hissy fit seems wildly misguided, since the FHFA has not been a party to the foreclosure settlement talks. It isn’t even a part of the Executive Branch, so it’s a little hard to charge that the Obama Administration is acting in bad faith (which seems to be the subtext). Per Reuters:

“Each agency has its own statutory authority, and its own particular evidence,” said Peter Swire, a law professor at Ohio State University and former special assistant to the president for economic policy in the Obama administration.
“The FHFA is not part of the executive branch,” Swire added. “It does not report to the president. If the FHFA finds the right evidence, it decides on its own to move forward.”
(more)


September 10th, 2011  | Posted in banking |   Comments Off


Bush claims credit for ‘enabling’ killing of bin Laden

by Hunter
 Daily Kos

Remember THIS?


From USA Today, George W. Bush wants to make sure you know that he should get some credit for the thing he most conspicuously did not do:

Bush said the events that led to the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in May began during his administration.
“The work that was done by intelligence communities during my presidency was part of putting together the puzzle that enabled us to see the full picture of how bin Laden was communicating and eventually where he was hiding,” he said. “It began the day after 9/11.”

I suppose Bush has a point here, in that obviously we started looking for bin Laden after 9/11, right? Except that not even that is true; bin Laden was a well-known terrorist leader long before then, and President Clinton had launched both intelligence efforts against him and military attempts to take him out—to the pointed irritation of some Republicans, as I recall. The Bush administration found themselves accused of ignoring or downplaying the threat by al Qaeda, as relayed to them by the intelligence community, until 9/11. (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden death |   Comments Off


Republican John Kyl Threatens To Quit Super Committee If Defense Cuts Are On The Table

By Stephen D. Foster Jr.
 Addicting Info.org <—Home Page Link

At a luncheon held shortly after the first meeting of the super committee by the American Enterprise Institute and the Heritage Foundation, Arizona Sen. Jon Kyl said he is “off of the committee if we are going to talk about further defense cuts.”
CNN reports that Kyl said cuts should come from “entitlement” programs like Medicare and Social Security, not defense spending.”
This is a real non-starter for a committee that is charged with cutting $1.5 trillion in spending. Kyl should be replaced with a Republican who is at least willing to put defense cuts on the table. Social Security and Medicare have nothing to do with our debt problem. Defense, however, does.
Ten years of war have produced an inflated national debt and trillions of dollars have been spent. Social Security and Medicare funds on the other hand, are paid for through FICA taxes and monthly premiums. Social Security has a two trillion dollar surplus and does not account for one penny of the budget. If anything needs to be cut from the budget, it’s defense spending. Even if we cut the defense budget in half, it would still be the largest defense budget in the world.

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Supercommittee |   Comments Off


6.4-magnitude quake leaves B.C. shaken, but not hurt

By Kelly Sinoski And Gordon Hoekstra
 The Vancouver Sun
A 6.4-magnitude earthquake struck the coast of northern Vancouver Island Friday, shaking and rattling Metro Vancouver highrises and parts of B.C., but otherwise leaving the province fairly unscathed.
Chris Duffy, director of operations for Emergency Management B.C., said there were no reports of injuries or damages as a result of the quake, which struck just after 12: 30 p.m., about 80 kilometres south of Port Alice, sending dozens of aftershocks as big as 4.9 across B.C. and a slight rattling as far as Seattle, Wash.
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center did not issue a warning, saying there was “no destructive widespread tsunami threat.” It did however warn authorities to be prepared for local tidal swells.
In the tiny Vancouver Island community of Zeballos, Arlene Coburn was at the local school when the power flickered off and then on quickly. She said that it felt like the whole building was going to topple over, but nothing fell off the walls. “One big one, and a little tremor, and that was it,” she said. “It gave [the school] a good sway.”
The 60 or so children at the Zeballos elementary secondary school were ushered out and across a bridge, a measure used when there’s a concern of a tsunami, said Coburn, a part-time janitor at the school. (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in earthquake |   Comments Off


Egyptians storm Israeli embassy in Cairo

Xinhuanet
Hundreds of Egyptians have stormed the building housing Israel’s embassy in Cairo, throwing documents and Israel’s national flag out of the windows.
Egyptian police and military forces fired tear gas to move the protestors, injuring at least four hundred and fifty of them. Si Nan takes a look at what was an uneasy night in the Egyptian capital.
Faltering ties over a rampageous night. The Israeli mission in Cairo is witnessing a downturn in relations between the two nations.
As anger surges after Israeli forces mistakenly killed five Egyptian police officers last month, demonstrations have turned into clashes.
The crowds began to converge on the embassy throughout Friday afternoon, and into the night, tearing down large sections of a security wall outside the 21-storey building, while Egyptian police failed to intervene.
A security official said a group of 30 protesters broke into the building and began dumping hundreds of Hebrew documents from a balcony.
At least two police vehicles were set alight and demonstrators lit fires in the street.

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Middle East |   Comments Off


FDA May Be Getting Ready to Water-Down Your Vitamins and Nutrients

by Kevin Hayden
 TruthisTreason.net <—Home Page Link
It’s been on the docket since 2007 for the Food & Drug Administration to revamp nutrient guidelines for the American population. The FDA says it is close to issuing a new guideline that may water-down essential nutrients in foods and multivitamins.
At issue is whether the FDA will use the relied-upon RDA (Recommended Daily Allowance) that covers the nutrient needs of 98% of the population or the EAR (Estimated Average Requirement) which only addresses the nutrient level needed to meet the needs of 50% of the population.
While the proposed FDA rule is anticipated any time now (it will have to withstand a public comment period), one wonders whether the FDA will take into consideration a newly-published report showing the Estimated Average Requirement (EAR) level would leave many Americans short of meeting their need for essential vitamins and minerals.
Please see information regarding Codex Alimentarius for further understanding and background information. This is a topic that is required reading if you are concerned about your health, vitamins or controls placed upon your foods. Cordi Howell sums this up perfectly here.
Strikingly, the newly published report shows that dietary supplements play a stronger role in meeting the nation’s nutrients needs than previously thought.
While the prevailing mantra is that an American adult can get all the essential nutrients they need out of a good diet, this is far from the truth in the real world. (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in health News |   Comments Off


Lamar Smith: Obama’s ‘Backdoor Amnesty’ Benefits ‘Drunk-Driving Illegal Immigrants Like His Uncle’

by Ryan J. Reilly
 TPM Muckraker
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX) is accusing President Barack Obama of a “double standard” because his uncle, an illegal immigrant, was released from prison after he was arrested from driving under the influence.
Obama’s uncle Onyango Obama was arrested in Massachusetts last month, charged with failing to yield, operating a motor vehicle to endanger and a DUI.
In a statement released on Friday, Smith tied the arrest to Obama’s recent changes to deportation policy, saying his “illegal immigrant uncle might be one of the first illegal immigrants to benefit from it.” The Department of Homeland Security announced the changes on Aug. 18; Obama’s uncle wasn’t arrested until Aug. 24. Smith’s press released continued:

President Obama’s uncle is a test case for why this new policy is a threat to the American people. President Obama’s backdoor amnesty allows drunk-driving illegal immigrants like his uncle to remain in the U.S.
(more)


September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


COMMENTARY: Rick Perry Sex Tape Video Scandal: A Five-Second Exposure

By Saul Relative
 YAHOO! Contributor Network
COMMENTARY | You knew it was bound to happen. You knew that someone so emphatically moralistic had to have a skeleton or two in the closet. But is it true that another family-values demagogue made a sex tape and because of a little digging by Politico’s Ben Smith, said sex tape will see the light of day? And is it true that the video involves none other than Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry?
Well, it isn’t as bad as all that. In fact, by today’s standards it might not even be rated as much of a scandal. But, still, schoolchildren were involved…
To explain: Back in 1986, when then state representative Perry was trying to educate Texas teens about the horrors of drugs, his office disseminated a video to the high schools in his district. At the end of the video there was a thirty-second gap. Then there was five seconds of a scene from the movie “1984.” A sex scene.
According to the Associated Press, one account from an assistant coach at Baird High School recalled that it was very difficult trying to instruct a bunch of snickering and laughing teenagers after the video was turned off.
A technician at House Technical Services took full responsibility for the scene be added, mistakenly placed on the video while copies were being made. Perry, of whom it was said had no knowledge of the sex scene prior to the video’s distribution, asked that all 26 of the videos be returned to his office. He admitted to being shocked that the scene was included. (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Rick Perry |   Comments Off


Obama jobs plan heartens frustrated blacks

By ERRIN HAINES & SUZANNE GAMBOA

President Barack Obama’s jobs pitch is already playing well with blacks, who had grown plenty irked with him over what they perceived as his indifference to their needs.
A day after Obama laid out before Congress his plan to kick-start job growth, many blacks hoped it would translate into reduced misery for them over the coming months. While the country’s unemployment rate stands at 9.1 percent, black unemployment has hit 16.7 percent, the highest since 1984. Unemployment among male blacks is at 18 percent, and black teens are unemployed at a rate of 46.5 percent.
The early signs of their reaction were positive.
Social media sites were abuzz with highlights from the president’s plan. Amid the comments were excited responses to the proposal, especially from the black community. Twitter was full of similar bursts of excitement over the plan, with some black Tweeters defending the president and applauding his message. One user tweeted: “Taking a sharp tone ’cause the NumbersDontLie! Pass this bill and put America back to work.”
Prominent African-Americans like Kenneth Chenault, chairman and CEO of American Express and Michael Nutter, mayor of Philadelphia, quickly applauded the plan. Rep. Maxine Waters, (D-CA), has been one of the most vocal advocates for dealing more effectively with black unemployment. She was enthusiastic. (more)

September 10th, 2011  | Posted in Jobs, President Obama |   Comments Off


Does America still respect labor?

By Brian Cooney
 OpEdNews.com
As another Labor Day came and went, I found myself wondering whether this important national holiday has lost some of its original meaning. The U.S. Department of Labor explains on its website, that Labor Day is “a creation of the labor movement . . . and a yearly national tribute to the contributions workers have made to the strength, prosperity, and well-being of our country.”
Yet today the “labor movement” is struggling for its life. Since 1945, union membership has declined from a historic high of 35% of workers to only 11.9% in 2010.
The Republican Party has been very effective in its decades-long campaign against the labor movement. For instance, in 1947 a Republican congress passed the Taft-Hartley Act over the veto of President Truman.
One of its most important provisions allowed states to pass so-called right-to-work laws that prohibit union shops. (Union shops are workplaces in which, by collective agreement, all employees must be either union members or pay their fair share of the union’s costs in representing them.)
There are twenty-two right-to-work states, predominantly in the South and upper Midwest. Right-to-work laws invite new hires to be free riders, benefitting from union contracts without paying dues. And of course they weaken unions by depriving them of funds. (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Labor, labor unions |   Comments Off


Justice Department Reports Drug Seizures Do Little to Stop Cartels

By Kevin Gosztola
 FiredogLake.com
The government’s long-running war on drugs is having little impact, according to documents just released. The National Drug Intelligence Center (NDIC) of the Justice Department reports demand for drugs is rising and the demand is being supplied by major transnational criminal organizations (TCOs) or cartels, which adapt to government “counterdrug efforts” modifying interrelationships, altering drug production levels and adjusting trafficking routes and methods.
A leaked US Customs Border and Protection memo paints a grimmer picture of the war on drugs. Addressing the key question of whether arrests and deaths of key drug trafficking organization members impacts the flow of drugs, the memo answers, “The removal of key personnel does not have discernible impact on drug flows as determined by seizure rates.” And, while arrests or deaths of drug trafficking organization (DTO) leaders may have long-term implications, “there is no indication it will impact overall drug flows into the United States.”
Additionally, the NDIC’s report shows the costs of “illicit drug use to society” in 2007 was $193 billion. Just over $61 billion of the cost was the result of “crime.” The cost to health was $11.4 billion and the cost to “productivity” was $120.3 billion. (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Miscellaneous News |   Comments Off


What the hell is all of that screeching? Oh, I should have known!

The Immoral Minority
Okay first off, and not to appear too shallow, but somebody needs to tell Snowdrift Snooki that whatever is on her head is raping the shit out of whatever else is on top of her head. I know it is getting a little cooler with winter coming, but we layer our CLOTHING in Alaska, we don’t layer our wigs!
This “rebuttal” to the President’s speech the other day is sooo ignorant that I think it would save Palin a lot of time if she just started wearing a shirt that says “I just got lobotomized” and then she would not have to spend so many minutes demonstrating how completely brain damaged she is.
At one point Palin claims that the President is playing us all for fools, and I swear she said it with a straight face, which indicates to me that she is either completely lacking in self awareness or that she is the world’s best poker player.
And by the way when Palin claims that Obama is arrogant, and feels he does NOT have to explain what he is planning, that is complete bullshit. The President DID explain what he is planning, she was just TOO stupid to understand him because he was using clear and concise ENGLISH.
You know I cannot speak for everybody else, but I can quite literally go the rest of my life without hearing Sarah Palin say the words “shoving down our throats.”
It always makes me gag a little when she uses that phrase. (click here to watch the interview with the idiot)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Sarah Palin |   Comments Off


8 Facts That Prove the Tea Party Is Ignorant of the U.S. Constitution

By Liberal Lamp Post
 Addicting Info.org
The Tea Partiers insist that they obey the Constitution to the letter of the law and that their radical agenda embodies the Constitutional idea. But study the Constitution and you’ll see that these so-called Constitutional conservatives don’t love the law – they’re trying to distort and rewrite the Constitution to subvert it to their wishes. These 8 facts serve as proof.
1. Congress enjoys a Constitutional authority to provide social services.
The first and foremost power the Constitution grants Congress is the right to “collect taxes…to provide for common defense and general welfare” of the nation. Michele Bachmann and other radical Republicans ignore this Constitutional imperative in their quest to dismantle all federal initiatives that aren’t explicitly spelled out in the Constitution.
If the Tea Party gets their way, it would mean:

The end of Medicare: Bachmann has said she wants to “wean” future retirees off guaranteed health coverage in old age.
 The end of Social Security: Rick Perry calls our nation’s retirement security, which we fund through payroll taxes, a “Ponzi scheme.”
 The end of federal funding for education: Just this week, Bachmann argued to eliminate the Department of Education claiming that federal oversight of education “eviscerates” parents’ Constitutional rights to administer education (see video).

(more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Teabaggers |   Comments Off


A decade after 9/11, solemn reflection, unshaken resolve

by Kevin Vaughan
 The Denver Post
In the shadow of ground zero, they point at the hole in the skyline and they raise their hands to their mouths and stand in silence.
They walk next to the 56-foot-long bronze depiction of America’s darkest moment and stop to stare at the poster taped to the wall nearby, the one depicting 343 faces of firefighters who never came home on Sept. 11, 2001. They close their eyes and remember.
The jet turning and ripping through the side of one of the steel-and-glass-sheathed buildings in a fireball. The smoke billowing skyward. The collapse of two buildings that stood as the very symbol of the economic and engineering might of the United States. The confusion and then the sense of collective unity for perhaps the only time since Pearl Harbor or maybe the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Ten years after coordinated terrorist attacks ended 2,977 lives and altered the world in countless ways, those memories remain. Today there is also war fatigue, a fragile economy, more stringent security at airports and the frustrating partisan bickering that has come to define American political life.
But there is something else too. – There is a near universal feeling of reverence for that day, for all of those who were lost, even for the twisted artifacts pulled from the rubble. And there is an ongoing quest that continues a decade later to put that day into some kind of perspective, to say about it something important and lasting. (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


House GOP pledges speedy review of job proposals

By DAVID ESPO
House Republicans unexpectedly pledged an immediate review of President Barack Obama’s jobs proposals on Friday as he launched a public campaign for urgent passage of his day-old $447 billion program of tax cuts and new spending. “The time for gridlock and games is over,” the president declared.
“Nothing radical in this bill,” Obama told a large crowd at the University of Richmond on the afternoon after his dramatic speech to Congress. “Everything in it will put more people back to work and more money back in the pockets of those who are working. Everything in it will be paid for.”
Obama’s contentions are unlikely to go unchallenged by Republicans, who have worked without letup for months to cut spending rather than increase it. But he had barely completed his remarks when Speaker John Boehner and other top House GOP leaders released their letter to him declaring “our desire to work with you to find common ground.”
With unemployment at 9.1 percent, they wrote that while their own proposals may differ from Obama’s “we believe your ideas merit consideration by the Congress and believe the American people expect them to be given such consideration.” (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Jobs, Republicans |   Comments Off


The Incredible Shrinking Federal Workforce

from The Business Insider
(click chart for larger size)

Another myth debunked: Contrary to your belief that the Federal government is growing and growing in terms of its role in the government, it turns out that in one crucial respect, it’s actually shrinking.
As a share of all workers, Federal workers have been declining pretty steadily over the last several decades. That number has risen a little bit under Obama — due to some growth in the Federal workforce and the dramatic shrinking of the private workforce — but the ratio is still near the all-time rock bottom. (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Jobs, Labor |   Comments Off


The GOP Neither Puts Up Nor Shuts Up

By Terrance Heath

Well, he did it. President Obama went big. Big for him, anyway. While the presidents plan isn’t bold enough to satisfy many progressives, he accomplished something that may cause Republicans some regret if they fail to realize it and the president presses his advantage. By presenting a plan that, however modest it is in reality, will do more to help the economy than Republicans admit they’ve even tried to — with ideas the GOP has, as the president noted in his speech, supported in the past — and proceeding to pound his “pass this bill, the president is sending a clear message to the American people: “If Republicans won’t get behind this effort to actually create jobs, then they won’t get behind anything.”
In other words, the president has given the GOP yet another undeserved chance to put up or shut up. So far, Republicans seem incapable of doing either.
The entire Republican field for 2012 went on record opposing the plan even before the president’s words stopped echoing off the walls of the capitol building.
Michele Bachmann – Caricature “Unfortunately it seems that every time the president of the United States speaks his policies have cost the American people both jobs and future prosperity,” says Michele Bachmann.
This from a woman who just over a month ago was willing to have the United States default on its debt — despite the economic disaster that would have ensued. (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Republicans |   Comments Off


President Obama’s Jobs Address Averages 31.5 Million On 11 Broadcast & Cable Networks

Written By Bill Gorman
 TV by The Numbers

On Thursday, September 8, 2011, President Obama addressed a joint session of Congress with his agenda for creating jobs in the U.S. The speech was carried live from approximately 7:00PM-8:00PM EDT on 11 networks. The sum of the average audience for those networks was 31,439,080 viewers, with a combined household rating of 20.9. The following networks carried the address: ABC, AZA, CBS, NBC, TEL, UNI, CNBC, CNN, FBN, FOXNC, and MSNBC.


September 9th, 2011  | Posted in Media, President Obama |   Comments Off


Identities of suspects behind attack threat are unknown

By Mark Hosenball and Phil Stewart
 Reuters
While U.S. authorities are hunting two or three suspects behind a possible 9/11 anniversary attack threat, intelligence agencies are in the dark about the suspects’ identities, officials said on Friday.
On Thursday, federal and New York City authorities disclosed that the U.S. had received specific and credible but uncorroborated intelligence indicating two or three individuals may have entered the U.S. as part of a possible plot to attack Washington or New York on the tenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks.
Officials said that the intelligence was received on Wednesday or Thursday, and was dramatic enough to change earlier assessments that there was no specific or credible intelligence of any plots to attack the U.S. on the 9/11 anniversary.
One official said that while lacking information about the identities of potential attackers, the intelligence was noteworthy because it was the first credible information alleging a specific attack plot related to the 9/11 anniversary. (more)
New York cracks down after “credible” 9/11 threat
 By Daniel Trotta and Phil Stewart
 Reuters
New York police amassed a display of force on Friday including checkpoints that snarled traffic in response to intelligence about a car or truck bomb plot linked to the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks.
Officers armed with automatic weapons were stationed at city landmarks including Wall Street, Times Square and the September 11 memorial site where the Twin Towers once stood.
U.S. officials called the threat “credible but unconfirmed” and timed to the anniversary of the hijacked plane attacks that killed 2,995 people in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.
There was reason to believe threat may be linked to al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahri, a U.S. official told Reuters on Friday, speaking on condition of anonymity.
New Yorkers who have grown accustomed to bag searches at subway stations and random displays of police presence encountered increased vigilance after the threat, which prompted President Barack Obama to order a redoubling of U.S. counter-terrorism efforts. (more)

September 9th, 2011  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


Text of Remarks of President Barack Obama in an Address to a Joint Session of Congress

Courtesy of Common Dreams.org
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, and fellow Americans:
Tonight we meet at an urgent time for our country. We continue to face an economic crisis that has left millions of our neighbors jobless, and a political crisis that has made things worse.
This past week, reporters have been asking “What will this speech mean for the President? What will it mean for Congress? How will it affect their polls, and the next election?”
But the millions of Americans who are watching right now: they don’t care about politics. They have real life concerns. Many have spent months looking for work. Others are doing their best just to scrape by – giving up nights out with the family to save on gas or make the mortgage; postponing retirement to send a kid to college.
These men and women grew up with faith in an America where hard work and responsibility paid off. They believed in a country where everyone gets a fair shake and does their fair share – where if you stepped up, did your job, and were loyal to your company, that loyalty would be rewarded with a decent salary and good benefits; maybe a raise once in awhile. If you did the right thing, you could make it in America.
But for decades now, Americans have watched that compact erode. They have seen the deck too often stacked against them. And they know that Washington hasn’t always put their interests first.
The people of this country work hard to meet their responsibilities. The question tonight is whether we’ll meet ours. The question is whether, in the face of an ongoing national crisis, we can stop the political circus and actually do something to help the economy; whether we can restore some of the fairness and security that has defined this nation since our beginning. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in President Obama |   Comments Off


ODD NEWS: Dutch woman calls ex-boyfriend 65,000 times

AP
AMSTERDAM — Dutch prosecutors are charging a 42-year-old woman with stalking after she allegedly called her ex-boyfriend 65,000 times in the past year.
The 62-year-old victim from The Hague filed a police complaint in August due to the persistent phone calls. Police arrested the suspected stalker Monday, seizing several cell phones and computers from her home in Rotterdam.
Hague prosecution spokeswoman Nicolette Stoel said Thursday the woman argued to judges at a preliminary hearing she had a relationship with the man and the number of calls she placed to him wasn’t excessive. The man denied they had a relationship.
The court ordered her not to contact him again.

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Odd News |   Comments Off


Obama to Congress: Pass my $447 billion jobs plan now

By LESLEY CLARK
 The Miami Herald
With the nation verging on renewed recession, President Barack Obama urged a divided Congress Thursday night to back his new $447 billion jobs package, which he promised would give a “jolt to an economy that has stalled.”
The plan includes tax breaks for employees and companies that hire the unemployed, programs to help cities and towns retain teachers, firefighters and police officers, and money to rehab vacant and foreclosed homes. It also calls for $50 billion to improve transportation and $10 billion toward a public-private “infrastructure bank.”
“The people of this country work hard to meet their responsibilities,” Obama said. “The question tonight is whether we’ll meet ours. The question is whether in the face of an ongoing national crisis, we can stop the political circus and actually do something to help the economy.”
The speech came as a sluggish job market, financial turbulence in Europe and plummeting consumer confidence has sent the administration and lawmakers reeling for ways to pump momentum into the economy. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Jobs, Obama Administration |   Comments Off


Left-Wing Mainstream Media Hurting Democracy As Much As Right-Wing

By Segway Jeremy Ryan
 Addicting Info.org <<<Home Page Link

I waited and waited, the thoughts have been brewing in my mind for quite some time I just didn’t know how to show it. People ask who the enemies are or who is hurting our movement in the media. They always point to Fox News but many fail to see just how much of a roll the left wing media especially MSNBC has to play in hurting the movement as well. Recently I unleashed a bombshell of a story that showed a clear connection between the Governor and some of our elections software. We know (and can prove) that at least to some extent, the DOA, which is a department under the Governor, writes election software that is used in our elections. This is major. When I released this information it was a post right here on Addicting Info. It spread and there were thousands of views.
People were interested, but thousands isn’t going to cut it. We have clear and concise proof of a break in our election integrity and with publicity we will get all of the answers. So I e-mailed all of the MSNBC shows. Once an hour. Not a single one posted it, in fact one, which I will not name, stated that they only touch election integrity issues if the story is already mainstream. Really? This story could very well be what it takes to break the camel’s back and make every state look at election integrity. The fact that we still do not have an answer to our questions shows there is something to hide. Could this something be the smoking gun? It very well could. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Media, politics |   Comments Off


AP source says: “Specific, unconfirmed threat received”

By EILEEN SULLIVAN
 AP
WASHINGTON  — Counter-terrorism officials said Thursday they are investigating a credible but unconfirmed terror threat involving New York or Washington.
The threat was so specific, and coming at a time of already heightened security just days before the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, that it could not be ignored, a counterterrorism official told The Associated Press. The official requested anonymity to discuss sensitive security information.
Officials would not tell the AP what specifically is being targeted in New York or Washington or the timing of a potential attack. A government official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the terror alert has not been raised because of the threat.
A law enforcement official in New York, also speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive security information, described the threat as credible but declined to give details.
Information gleaned from Osama bin Laden’s compound in May indicated that al-Qaida had considered attacking the U.S. on the 10th anniversary and other important dates. Security has been enhanced around the country, including in New York and Washington, in the weeks leading up to Sunday’s anniversary. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


Republicans Invoke The Founding Fathers To Disenfranchise The Poor

by Rmuse
 PoliticusUSA
There are men in history who are revered out of mythological understanding of their perceived greatness and value to society or a particular cause that society considers worthy. Every country has men and women who are referred to as great humanitarians, warriors, or ideologues who contributed to the development of a nation. America is experiencing a vigorous movement that yearns to return to the Founders’ original intent in the Constitution and the fallacy that the Founding Fathers were great men who believed in representative democracy, individuality, and universal liberty for the population. However, although they were important to America’s founding, assigning them greatness is going too far when their hypocrisy concerning equality for all is revealed.
Republicans are revealing their adherence to the Founders’ beliefs that equality is not intended for every member of the population, and they have shown themselves to be a party for the wealthy and their corporations. Indeed, for the past ten years, Republicans have been successful enslaving 98% of the population to the point that most Americans work to pay taxes that go into the coffers of the wealthiest Americans and corporations. After the 2010 midterm elections, Republican governors and state legislatures have worked feverishly to disenfranchise voters by making it difficult (if not impossible) for them to have a voice in government by restricting their right to vote. The voter suppression laws in states such as Wisconsin, Florida, Michigan, and Ohio target the elderly, disabled, students, and primarily the poor because they tend to vote for Democratic candidates.
Last week, an extremist conservative wrote an article titled, “Registering the Poor to Vote is Un-American” that illustrates the mindset the Founding Fathers held concerning the poor’s voting rights. The conservative cretin, Matthew Vadum, penned his belief that “left-wing activists are keen to register the poor to vote because they know the poor can be counted on to vote themselves more benefits by electing redistributionist politicians. Welfare recipients are particularly open to demagoguery and bribery.” Vadum also said that, “Registering them to vote is like handing out burglary tools to criminals. It is profoundly antisocial and un-American to empower the nonproductive segments of the population to destroy the country — which is precisely why Barack Obama zealously supports registering welfare recipients to vote.” Vadum’s opinion is an oft-expressed fallacy that President Obama’s political agenda benefits the poor and especially African-Americans to curry favor for the next election. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Republicans |   Comments Off


Hunger Rate Spikes In Rick Perry’s Texas, Even As National Rate Holds Steady

By Marie Diamond
 Think Progress.org <—Home Page Link
 via Alternet.org  <—Home Page Link
A new report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture shows that household hunger glaring exception was the state of Texas, which has been hailed by Gov. Rick Perry (R) as a model for the rest of the nation during these tough economic times:

Built on a measure called “food insecurity,” the study was based on a survey of 45,000 households during the 2010 census, and found 14.5 percent of households had difficulty meeting their food needs — a statistic that was “essentially unchanged” from 2009, according to the agency. Last year saw a decline in the proportion of households with “severe” food insecurity across the country, too.
In Texas, however, the three-year average food insecurity rate did increase, from 17.4 percent in 2007-2009 to the current rate of 18.8 percent in 2008-2010, according to the Austin-based Center for Public Policy Priorities.

Mississippi is the only state with a worse food insecurity rate than Texas. The number of people on food stamps in Texas rose 2.8 percent between 2009 and 2010, and is now a staggering 15.6 percent of the state’s population. The increase was one of the highest in the nation. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Rick Perry |   Comments Off


Postal Workers: The Last Union

by Allison Kilkenny
 Truthout.org <—Home Page Link

The recent attacks against the United States Postal Service (USPS) are more than signs of desperate times – a natural sunset moment for a service rendered archaic by FedEx and UPS. Rather, the Postal Service has been under constant, vicious assault for years from the right, who views this as an epic battle with the goal of finally taking down the strongest union in the country, the second largest employer in the United States (second only to Wal-Mart,) and a means to roll the country ever closer toward the abyss of privatization.
The Postal Service, which is older than the Constitution itself, stands at a precipice. If this great institution, which provides one of the oldest, most reliable services in the country, is permitted to fall and Congress kills its great union, then truly no collective bargaining rights, no worker contract, no union will be safe within the United States.
As the USPS spirals toward default, the historically uncontroversial mail service system has suddenly become a hot-button issue. It’s an unlikely organization to inspire such hysteria. The Postal Service isn’t paid for by taxpayer dollars, but rather fully funded by the sale of stamps. It’s easy to forget what a marvel this is – that today, in 2011, one can still mail a letter clear across the country for less than 50 cents. And if the impressiveness of that feat still hasn’t sunk in, attempt this brain exercise: consider what else you can buy for $0.44. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in labor unions |   Comments Off


Black and Blue Chicago

BY Salim Muwakkil
 In These Times
A recent spate of police shootings of African
 Americans underscores longstanding mutual distrust.
Just a few hours apart on July 25, Chicago police officers shot and critically wounded 21-year-old Joe Banks Jr. and 13-year-old Jimmell Cannon. Witnesses at the scenes say the victims were unarmed, while police claim they both wielded guns. (Cannon, who was shot six times, is said to have had a BB gun.) This blanket justification is often absurd on its face: How many fleeing suspects are likely to stop, turn around and point a gun at well-armed cops?
Despite the implausibility of this story, the Chicago Police Department has invoked it repeatedly this year. As of August 30, Chicago police have shot 45 people, killing 16 — 3 more than the total number shot to death in all of 2010. Eighty-seven percent of those shot by police (as of June 30) were black, according to the Independent Police Review Authority, in a city that is 36 percent African-American. No police officer has been charged with criminal wrongdoing in any of these cases, and many in the black community are furious.
“If I have my hands in my pockets when police stop me — and they stop me all the time — I freeze until they take my hands out of my pockets,” says Jermaine Pearson, a 26-year-old resident of Chicago’s Grand Boulevard neighborhood. “I don’t move ‘cause I knew a dude who took his hands out of his pocket when he got stopped and police shot him.”
Pearson was one of five young African-American men I talked to about their relationship to the CPD. All five had contempt for the police, even though two had relatives in the department. “I see the police as a bunch of folks who are trained to abuse us,” said Anthony White, 24. “All they do is harass you.” (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in racism |   Comments Off


FreePress.net / Save The Internet.com: AT&T’s attempt to take over T-Mobile is falling apart.

from Craig Aaron

Last week the Justice Department announced it was suing to stop the deal; its leading antitrust attorney said, “Unless this merger is blocked, competition and innovation will be reduced, and consumers will suffer.”
AT&T’s lawyers and PR team are now scrambling to revive this disastrous deal, but they’re beginning to sound like sore losers. They’re now trying to wriggle AT&T out of its obligation to pay T-Mobile a nearly $6 billion “failure fee” if the deal doesn’t go through.
Over the next few months we’re going to keep up this incredible momentum against AT&T’s job-killing merger.
Our work begins with getting some of the more than 70 House members to take their names off a June letter supporting this deal. Now that the facts are known they must correct the record and get on the right side of history.
Donate $10 now and help us convince Congress to correct the record and oppose the AT&T–T-Mobile merger.
AT&T is doing everything it can to beat the DoJ suit and push this merger through. And its cronies are back on cable news parroting bogus talking points about job creation, innovation and competition.2
Free Press and our activists won’t be fooled. We need more members of Congress to stand with us and against AT&T’s spin brigade.

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Internet, Telephone companies |   Comments Off


Appeals court shoots down Virginia’s healthcare challenge

By Sam Baker
 The Hill.com
A federal appeals court on Thursday dismissed one of the highest-profile challenges to President Obama’s healthcare reform law.
The 4th Circuit Court of Appeals said Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli (R) does not have a legal right to sue over the law’s requirement that most people buy insurance. The court vacated a lower court’s ruling in the case and instructed the lower court to dismiss the suit.
The Supreme Court is almost certain to have the final say on whether the coverage mandate is constitutional. Most legal observers expect the court to hear arguments during the term that begins in October, and rule in the summer of 2012.
The 4th Circuit’s long-awaited decision isn’t a huge surprise: those who attended oral arguments in the suits said the judges seemed skeptical of the mandate’s critics, especially Cuccinelli. All three of the judges who heard the case were appointed by Democratic presidents, and two were appointed by Obama. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Health Care, Health Insurance, health News |   Comments Off


WAY TO GO! – Longshoremen storm Washington port over labor dispute

By MIKE BAKER
 The Associated Press
International Longshore and Warehouse Union International President Robert McEllrath is grabbed by police as union workers block a grain train in Longview, Washington.

Hundreds of Longshore workers stormed the Port of Longview, overpowered security guards, damaged rail cars and dumped grain at the center of a labor dispute that also stopped work at four other ports on Thursday, officials said.
Six guards were detained for a couple of hours after at least 500 Longshoremen broke down gates about 4:30 a.m. and smashed windows in the guard shack, said Longview Police Chief Jim Duscha. He called the detained guards “hostages.”
No one was hurt, and nobody has been arrested. Most of the protesters returned to their union hall after cutting brake lines and spilling grain from a car at the EGT terminal, Duscha said. They also pushed a private security vehicle into a ditch.
A court hearing was scheduled for Thursday afternoon in Tacoma, in which a judge was expected to consider whether the actions by the union violated a previous restraining order. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Labor |   Comments Off


Newly Published Audio Provides Real-Time View of 9/11 Attacks

by Jim Dwayer
 The New York Times
Miles Kara, who worked as an investigator for the 9/11 Commission, tracked down the original audio files. “The story of the day, of 9/11 itself, is best told in the voices of 9/11,” he said.
For one instant on the morning of Sept. 11, an airliner that had vanished from all the tracking tools of modern aviation suddenly became visible in its final seconds to the people who had been trying to find it.
It was just after 9 a.m., 16 minutes after a plane had hit the north tower of the World Trade Center, when a radio transmission came into the New York air traffic control radar center. “Hey, can you look out your window right now?” the caller said.
“Yeah,” the radar control manager said.
“Can you, can you see a guy at about 4,000 feet, about 5 east of the airport right now, looks like he’s —”
“Yeah, I see him,” the manager said.
“Do you see that guy, look, is he descending into the building also?” the caller asked.
“He’s descending really quick too, yeah,” the manager said. “Forty-five hundred right now, he just dropped 800 feet in like, like one, one sweep.” (more)
(CLICK HERE TO HEAR SOME OF THE AUDIO)
 

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in terrorism |   Comments Off


Military officials ignored Cheney’s 9/11 shoot-down order

by Stephen C. Webster
 The Raw Story
Newly published audio this week reveals that Vice President Dick Cheney’s infamous Sept. 11, 2001 order to shoot down rogue civilian aircraft was ignored by military officials, who instead ordered pilots to only identify suspect aircraft.
That revelation is one of many in newly released audio recordings compiled by investigators for the 9/11 Commission, published this week by The Rutgers Law Review. Featuring voices from employees at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and American Airlines, the newly released multimedia provides a glimpse at the chaos that emerged as the attack progressed.
Most striking of all is the revelation that an order by Vice President Dick Cheney was ignored by the military, which saw his order to shoot down aircraft as outside the chain of command. Instead of acknowledging the order to shoot down civilian aircraft and carrying it out, NORAD ordered fighters to confirm aircraft tail numbers first and report back for further instructions.
Cheney’s order was given at “about 10:15″ a.m., according to the former VP’s memoirs, but the 9/11 Commission Report shows United flight 93 going down at 10:06 a.m. Had the military followed Cheney’s order, civilian aircraft scrambling to get out of the sky could have been shot down, exponentially amplifying the day’s tragedy. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Dick Cheney |   Comments Off


Disorganized Maria remains a threat

By CURTIS MORGAN
 The Miami Herald
Tropical Storm Maria weakened on Thursday and could even dissolve into a tropical wave as it approaches the Leeward Islands and Puerto Rico this weekend.
But a shift in track and the possibility that the storm could regain strength in a few days raises the risk of potential impacts on Hispaniola, the Bahamas and – potentially – Florida or the elsewhere up the Atlantic coast.
At 11 a.m., the National Hurricane Center reported that Maria, rocketing west at 22 mph, was growing disorganized and may have lost circulation. But forecasters cautioned that conditions in its projected path could refuel development.
The official track also shifted south, putting more of the Leeward Islands in Maria’s path, including Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, the southern Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands. Many of the islands suffered serious flooding and other damage from both Tropical Storm Emily and Hurricane Irene.
Tropical storm watches were posted for Antigua, St. Maartin, Saba, St. Eustatius, Barbuda, Montserrat, Nevis and St. Kitts. Other watches and warnings could go up over the next few days if Maria holds together as a tropical system. The center’s forecast keeps Maria a tropical storm until at least Tuesday when it would be somewhere near the Central Bahamas, close to where Irene was two weeks ago. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in hurricane |   Comments Off


The Herd Mentality Strikes Again! – Wall St dips after trade, jobless data

By Chuck Mikolajczak

Stocks slipped on Thursday after data showed continued softness in the labor market but a shrinking trade gap, ahead of a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama detailing his plan for jobs growth.
Applications for unemployment benefits rose to 414,000 in the week ended September 3 from an upwardly revised 412,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said.
A separate report showed the trade deficit narrowed considerably in July, a positive signal for growth in the third quarter after a sluggish first half.
“The trade balance was better than expected despite worse jobless claims, so that could move up (gross domestic product) estimates, and that is why we probably didn’t go down more than what we should have on the number,” said Sam Ginzburg, head of capital markets at First New York in New York. (more)

September 8th, 2011  | Posted in Wall Street |   Comments Off


« Previous Entries
















Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010


Categories

2012 Presidential Election (159)

Abortion (29)

Afghanistan (161)

agriculture (1)

airlines/airplanes (19)

Al-Qaeda (33)

animals (43)

Anthony Weiner (D-NY) (21)

automakers (43)

banking (154)

Bernie Sanders (I-VT) (6)

Big Oil (119)

Big PhARMA (14)

bombing (50)

books (8)

Bradley Manning (26)

British Petroleum (BP) (212)

budget crisis (110)

Business (11)

Cartoon (28)

casualties (28)

Children (32)

CIA (35)

civil rights (4)

Climate change (48)

commentary (34)

Congress (201)

consumers (24)

corporate scum (36)

corruption (84)

Crime (214)

debt ceiling talks (56)

Defense Department (9)

Deficit (82)

Democratic Party (77)

Dennis Kucinich (17)

Dick Cheney (15)

disaster (29)

disease (14)

DNC (5)

earthquake (32)

ecology (28)

economy (156)

Education (32)

Elections (306)

Employment (56)

energy (31)

Entertainment (104)

environment (99)

Eric Cantor (2)

FAA (3)

FBI (17)

FCC (33)

Federal Deficit (24)

Federal Reserve (38)

Financial (167)

financial reform (35)

Fire (30)

Flood (64)

Food (67)

foreclosures (44)

Foreign Affairs (23)

Fox News (49)

fraud (51)

Free Press.net (5)

Gabrielle Giffords (20)

Gaddafi (80)

gasoline prices (9)

Gay Marriage (24)

George Reid Commentary (48)

global warming (21)

GMOs (4)

guns (29)

Hate speech/groups (31)

Headlines (11)

Health Care (208)

Health Insurance (10)

health News (135)

Herman Cain (4)

Hero (44)

Hillary Clinton (22)

Homeland Security (32)

Housing (38)

Human Rights (19)

Humor (36)

hurricane (36)

Hypocrisy (50)

idiot (163)

immigration (71)

insurance companies (12)

Internet (65)

Iran (60)

Iraq (93)

Islam (60)

Israel (38)

Jobs (103)

John Boehner (88)

John Edwards (5)

John McCain (29)

Jon Stewart (10)

Julian Assange (33)

Justice Department (27)

Keith Olbermann (19)

Labor (67)

labor unions (55)

Lawsuit (27)

LGBT (134)

Liars (42)

Libya (113)

lobbyists (15)

marijuana (1)

Media (92)

Medicare (45)

Medicine (62)

Michele Bachmann (R-MN) (61)

Middle Class (1)

Middle East (50)

Military Veterans (7)

Miscellaneous News (933)

Mitt Romney (23)

money (18)

Mortgage crisis (33)

mosque (17)

MSNBC (27)

murder (90)

Music (35)

Music News (38)

music video (31)

Muslims (46)

Nancy Pelosi (19)

NATO (11)

Net Neutrality (19)

Newt Gingrich (28)

North Korea (24)

Nuclear power (36)

Nuclear Weapons (41)

Obama Administration (37)

Obituary (64)

Odd News (48)

Op/Ed (46)

Osama bin Laden (49)

Osama bin Laden death (25)

Pakistan (62)

Palestine (13)

Paul Ryan (10)

Pentagon (11)

politics (134)

poll (23)

pollution (36)

President Obama (344)

Progressives (14)

protests (129)

racism (48)

Radical Right (12)

recession (18)

relationships (32)

Religion (162)

Religious Right (51)

Republicans (480)

Rick Perry (31)

Rick Santorum (5)

right-wingers (207)

RNC (19)

Ron Paul (6)

Rudy Giuliani (1)

Rupert Murdoch (3)

Russia (23)

Sad Story (39)

Sarah Palin (156)

Scandal (32)

science (111)

Senate (49)

sex (78)

shooting (97)

Social Security (39)

Space (58)

sports (122)

State Department (7)

State Politics (1)

STFU (17)

Supercommittee (9)

Supreme Court (86)

Take action (24)

Taliban (20)

tax cuts (29)

taxes (107)

Teabaggers (200)

Technology (89)

Telephone companies (14)

Television (48)

terrorism (126)

Tornado (32)

torture (32)

Total Bull$hit (127)

Tragedy (106)

Travel (23)

U.S. Constitution (47)

U.S. Government (18)

U.S. Military (127)

U.S. Soldiers (64)

U.S. Treasury (9)

Uncategorized (22)

unemployment (47)

unions (36)

United Nations (2)

video (46)

violence (49)

Wall Street (78)

War (86)

War Casualties (64)

Way To Go (91)

wealthy (1)

weather news (118)

Whoops (40)

Wikileaks (74)

womens rights (21)

World News (122)

WTF (314)



Recent Entries

How Special Ops Copied al-Qaida to Kill It
Rick Perry’s Social Security Extremism: Why It Will Sink Him
‘Spartacus’ star Andy Whitfield dies of lymphoma at 39
Once Upon a Time in Mississippi
New to the Neighborhood
Democrats Fret Aloud Over Obama’s Re-election
Dogs and cats now living in harmony, pigs fly, Conservatives join liberals in opposing Obama’s payroll tax cut extension
Sea Radiation from Fukushima Seen Triple of Prior Estimate
FDA Advisers Call for Revised Labels for Osteoporosis Drugs
America Remembers 9/11 – The Photos Say It All


Blogroll

Plugins
Themes


Meta

Log in
Valid XHTML
XFN
WordPress












		Copyright © Progressive News Daily - Powered by WordPress


		ProSense theme created by Dosh Dosh and The Wrong Advices.
	





				Rss Feed

				Tweeter button

				Facebook button

				Digg button

				Youtube buttonArrayPodcast powered by podPress v8.8.10.12
