Ecomajik Corporation To Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire Victims | Release Wire



BlogHelpPitching TipsWriting Tips








Ecomajik Corporation to Offer Air Purifiers to Texas Wildfire Victims
September 8, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Business



Space Certified smoke removal systems available for loan or purchase. Technology used by the Red Cross and by The Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after 911.
Georgetown, Texas, September 07, 2011 — Locally based Ecomajik Corporation announced today it will try to do it’s part to help neighbors dealing with smoke damage and health concerns after the wildfires across the Austin, Texas area. The company distributes Air Purifiers with technology designed for NASA for use in the Space Shuttle. These air purifiers have long been used by the Red Cross and were employed by the Defense Department to clean the air in the Pentagon after the 911 attack.
Ecomajik will provide air purifiers to residents on a loan basis without charge. Additionally if residents are interested in purchasing units they have established a special program to help fire victims.
“My husband and I survived the wildfires in San Diego several years back. We know what challenges families have to deal with, even when your home makes it through the crisis untouched. Sometimes smoke damage can linger for weeks or months and is very unhealthy for inhabitants. Our Air Purifiers eliminate smoke and mitigate smoke damage from fires killing all odors and removing contaminants from the air.” noted Susan Braun Ecomajik Corporation President. “Breathing this contaminated air can be very hazardous to your health, especially if your are an “at risk” individual.” she added.

Residents in Bastrop, Moonglow, Steiner Ranch, Pedernales, Union Chapel, Luther Hill, and surrounding areas qualify for the free loan of equipment while supplies last. The air purifiers remove all contaminants from the air in homes and sanitize exposed surfaces as well. About the size of a bookshelf speaker they can clean a home up to 3,000 sq feet.
“Affected residents can call Ecomajik at 512-222-PURE (7873) and leave their names and numbers. We will contact them shortly. There are a limited number of units available for loan but we will do our best to help anyone we can.” noted Braun. Additional information is available at http://www.Ecomajik.com.
Media Contact:
Carl Braun
Ecomajik Corporation
Green Products and Technologies
1102 South Austin Ave Suite 110-197
Georgetown, Texas 78626
512-222-7873
carl@ecomajik.com
http://www.ecomajik.com
News from ReleaseWire.
 
Comments Off Tags: air, air purifiers, ecomajik, smoke, smoke damage, Texas, wildfires

 
Author: staronepr
                      This author has published 502 articles so far. More info about the author is coming soon.                    


Comments are closed.

More News From ‘Business’

AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
Canadian Green Forestry Investment Welcomed by FRA
The Number of Top Retailers Using Abandoned Basket Email Has Doubled
Top Marcellus Shale Resource Releases Updated Analysis of Industry Related Legislation
According to Ovum, AuraPortal Is Well Above Other BPM Providers in the International Market
Introducing FREE BEAUTY: Free Samples, Great Products, Exclusively From Organic Spa Magazine
New Hit Reality Show Follows San Diego Company
HK Pacific – Non-Farm Payrolls Critical for QE3 Decision.
Fire Retardant Spray Used in the World Trade Center Reconstruction Is Available for Homeowners
Text Message Marketing With Qittle.com to Increase Retail Sales






Submit Press Release


Username:



Password:



Remember Me



Register | Lost your password?


Advertise Here Contact us for information about advertising with ReleaseWire.

Useful Links







Most Popular



100%
Election Results 2011 website released – Get live updates of assembly elections


86%
Enterprise mobility market: Global Forecast & Industry Analysis (2010 - 2015)


72%
Global Solar Photovoltaic Market Analysis and Forecasts to 2020


55%
"A Good Man is Hard to Find" Returns to The Stage in 2011 – Live and On DVD


38%
73 Year Old Wins Miss Cougar America 2011 Title





Recent Releases

Authors Pose the Question Are We Poisoning Our Kids With Food?
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Books, Health & Fitness, Medical & Health

Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. New York, NY – September 12, 2011 — Today, nearly one-in-three children is overweight or obese. Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. Diabetes is showing up in children as young as …



The Journey Towards an HIV Cure Has Already Started
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Medical & Health

The time between now and the day when a cure for HIV is found is rapidly decreasing. What didn’t seem possible a generation ago is now within striking distance. At this point, it’s not a matter of if an HIV cure will be found, but when. Toulon, France, September 11, 2011 — The time between …



AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Business, Investment

Alternative Asset Analysis has backed forecasts that Brazilian real estate sector is poised for further expansion, boosting the foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country. Boston, MA, USA, September 11, 2011 — The Brazilian real estate sector is expected to help boost the foreign direct investment (FDI) in Brazil even further, said Anthony Johnson of …



Darwinian Evolution Revised for Human Society and Machines
September 12, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment, Books

The Theory of Evolution addresses biological changes over billions of years. A similar process, social evolution, applies to human societies. Now, another evolution has started: machine evolution. Which will win? Jacksonville, FL, September 12, 2011 – The theory we call Darwin’s Theory of Evolution, is actually a theory about the biological development of “life forms” …



Les Paul Is Dead. Now DOJ Is Trying to Kill Off Gibson Guitars as Well
September 11, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment

A recent Department of Justice raid on the headquarters of Gibson Guitars puts in question the fate of Gibson Guitars. The raid also may have serious implications for musicians and their instruments, throughout the United States. Nashville, TN, September 09, 2011 (Straight Line PR) — This story, incredible as it may seem, is true. It …



 


 

RSS feed
    © 2011 Release Wire



