2010  May | Fire Special Operations
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Fire Special Operations


About
Cheat Sheets
Training
Documents
Technology
Links






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Baltimore Hazmat Task Force Handles Weapon of Mass Disruption…Mercury
3 comments







Baltimore City Fire Department’s Hazmat Task Force, including Hazmat 1, Decon 1, and several support units were sent to a Baltimore elementary school after students broke a thermometer(s).  The students were in the auditorium practicing for graduation, when students playing with one or more thermometers broke them on the ground.
Several students and staff were contaminated with the mercury.  BCFD escorted those contaminated to their technical decon unit and allowed them to change out of their clothes.
The school remained closed while Maryland Department of the Environment and private clean up contractors worked to remove the mercury.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 31, 2010 •
		Filed under: command-leadership, hazmat, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: BCFD, hazmat, hazmat team, mercury 


Carbon Monoxide Suspected in Death of three maryland men
1 comment






Photo by Washington Post
PGFD Chief Spokesman Mark Brady released the following: 
Prince George’s County Firefighters and Paramedics made a disturbing discovery in a Hyattsville home after responding to a possible carbon monoxide (CO) incident this morning. At about 9:00 am, Sunday, May 30, 2010, Fire/EMS units responded to a 2-story, with basement, single family home in the 5600 block of 38th Avenue. Firefighter/Medics arrived and conducted a search of the home for victims and for the source of the CO. Three male victims were quickly located on the second floor and after a medical assessment were determined to be deceased. The males ranged in age from 18 to 22.
Firefighters also located a running gasoline powered generator in the basement of the house.  The house did not have any electric service. The generator was turned off by firefighters and an atmospheric test determined there were upwards of 300 parts per million (PPM) of CO inside the home.
Click HERE to read the Washington Post Coverage article on the incident.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 31, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-topics, fire-rescue-topics, hazmat, news, patient-management, special-operations
		• Tagged: CO, hazmat, PGFD 


House Collapse Caught on Camera in Poland
No comments







When large pieces of a structure begin to slough off, total collapse may be imminent.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 30, 2010 •
		Filed under: news, special-operations, videos
		• Tagged: structural collapse 


1 Person Critical after Iodine Pentaflouride spill.  4 Firefighters treated for Exposure at “EMS” Call
No comments







Workers were attempting to clean out tank truck when one persons was severely burned by chemical on the arms and chest.  Firefighters, responding to an EMS call, entered the building and encountered a chemical vapor cloud.   They were able to remove the victim and other employees in the area.  Nine people, including four firefighters were transported to the hospital.   Click more to read the full story and see the video.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 29, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-health-safety, ems-topics, fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, mass-casualty-incident, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations, videos
		• Tagged: hazardous materials, hazmat, hazmat team, HF, tank truck 


Confined Space Incident: 2 firefighters and 2 civilians pulled out unresponsive
1 comment







The four victims: a plumber, a bystander that came to the plumbers aid, and two first arriving firefighters were unresponsive when the were pulled from a well pit outside an Indiana home.  The two liberty township firefighters responded in their personnel vehicles, and arrived before the apparatus.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 26, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-topics, fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, line-of-duty, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: confined space, technical rescue, technical rescue team 


Acrylonitrile Leaks While Truck Driver Sleeps
No comments







A truck stop was shut down the truck stop for hours as officials cleaned up the spill.  A gas station employee was treated for chemical exposure, and a firefighter was treated on the scene for heat exhaustion.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 26, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-topics, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, news, patient-management, rescues
		• Tagged: hazmat, hazmat team, tanker truck 


Long Beach Fire US&R Team Rappels to Stop suicidal jumper
No comments








The Long Beach Fire Department Blogs reports:
On Saturday, May 22, 2010 at 2:39 PM, Long Beach Fire Department (LBFD) units, responded to a reported suicidal female hanging out of an eight (8) story window at the Hilton Hotel located at 701 W OCEAN BLVD, LONG BEACH, CA 90831.
The first arriving unit immediately recognized the potential complexity of this situation and requested additional apparatus and personnel including the Urban Search and Rescue (US&R) team, and the negotiation team and other officers from the Long Beach Police Department (LBPD).
During the four-hour negotiation process, the female finally pulled back away from the window for a brief time period. At this time through the coordinated effort of two of the US&R team members rappelling off of the fifteenth story roof to the eight floor to block the window, and the LBPD breaking down the door. The female was subdued without incident or injury; she was evaluated at the scene by Paramedics and transported by the LBPD for treatment to a local hospital.






Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 24, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-health-safety, fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: rope rescue, technical rescue, technical rescue tream 


3 Firefighters and 1 Worker transported from Hazmat scene.  Firefighters mistake chemical cloud for smoke
No comments






Photo by Cole Cosgrove
Lakewood, Washington firefighters responded to a fire alarm in a two story office building arond noon today.  Upon entering the building, firefighters noticed a white haze they mistakenly thought was smoke.  
Shortly after entering, the firefighters began to feel ill and exited the building.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 23, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, firefighting-operations, hazmat, in-the-line-of-duty, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: chemical plume, chemical reaction, hazmat, hazmat team, sick building 


Derailment dumps 3,000 gallons diesel
2 comments






Photo by Jim Hudelson / The Shreveport Times
Two engines, pulling 14 train cars loaded with GM vehicles, derailed in Caddo Parish, Louisiana.  According to the Shreveport times, 3,000 gallons of diesel leaked into a nearby ditch.  The Caddo hazmat team and the Louisiana Department of the Environment responded.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 23, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, hazmat, news, special-operations
		• Tagged: derailment, flammable liquid, hazmat, hazmat team 


Short on Cash for Special Operations?  Consider moving your personnel to a special ops engine
No comments






Photo of FDNY Squad 61 by Richard Whiting
Jay Lowry, founder of FirefighterHourly and FireRescue1 author, offers some advice for cash strapped departments. Instead of eliminating a special operations company, Jay suggests changing their ride.  You can read his full article by clicking here.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 16, 2010 •
		Filed under: administration-leadership, fire-rescue-topics, firefighting-operations, funding-staffing, hazmat, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: budget, rescue company, special-operations, squad, technical rescue 


Car Over a Cliff in Oregon sends 2 victims to the hospital by air
No comments






Police say excessive speed and alcohol played a factor when a 19 year old Oregon teen lost control of his car and plunged over a cliff in Clackamas County Oregon.
Mollala firefighters arrived around 7:00pm to find a 50 feet down a steep cliff.  Trees had prevented the car from falling another 150-200 feet.  One victims was found outside the car, while another was still inside. Firefighters set up a rope system to pull the victims up the cliff.
Both were airlifted to Portland hospitals by LifeFlight.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 16, 2010 •
		Filed under: ems-topics, fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: cliff rescue, extrication, medivac, rope rescue, technical rescue 


Hazmat called when fire breaks out in a box trailer
No comments






Photo by Carol Hopkins / Oakland Press 
A hazmat team was called in to assist Pontiac firefighters when a trailer containing 18,000 pounds of batteries caught fire.  Firefighters used foam to knock down the fire and controlled the runoff.  Initial responding firefighters were sent to the hospital to be evaluated as precaution.   (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 15, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, firefighting-operations, hazmat, special-operations
		• Tagged: hazmat, hazmat fire, hazmat team 


Hazards of Nitrogen Asphyxiation
No comments







Nitrogen is suspected in a recent incident in Ohio that took the life of a city maintenance worker and proved to be a close call for (3) Middleton firefighters.  The Chemical Safety Board previously released an excellent video on the hazards of nitrogen asphyxiation.
Many responders do not realize that nitrogen gas poses a danger to responders OUTSIDE a tank or confined space.





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 9, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations, videos
		• Tagged: air monitoring, confined space rescue, hazmat, technical rescue 


Confined Space Incident: City Worker Killed, 3 Firefighters overcome.
No comments






Photo by Gary Stelzer
Authorities are still sorting out an unusual confined space incident in Middleton, Ohio that took the life of a city worker, and hospitalized 3 firefighters.  The 31 year old city maintenance worker was conducting a non-entry inspection of a manhole when he lost consciousness and fell down inside the manhole.  
It is believed the worker may have been overcome by an unknown gas, possibly nitrogen.  The manhole was located in front of an Air Products facility. 
Middleton firefighters, responding to a report of a fall, attempted to rescue the worker by lowering a firefighter into the manhole with a rope. (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 8, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, firefighter-safety-health, hazmat, in-the-line-of-duty, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: confined space, hazardous materials, technical rescue, technical rescue team 


Dramatic Water Rescue at the Edge of a Water Fall
No comments







Rescuers pulled several teens to safety, only feet before they were swept over a water fall.  Click here to see the video.  Click more to read the story.  (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 5, 2010 •
		Filed under: fire-rescue-topics, news, patient-management, rescues, special-operations
		• Tagged: rescue team, swift water rescue, water rescue 


Georgia Chemical Plant Catches Fire
No comments







No one was injured Sunday afternoon when a fire broke out at a chemical plant off Abutment Road  in Dalton, Georgia, officials said. Just after 1 p.m., 911 began receiving calls from  several people who reported hearing explosions coming from the Polystar Chemical plant on Brookhollow Industrial Blvd. No one was in the building when the fire began, fire officials said. (more…)





Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 5, 2010 •
		Filed under: fires, hazmat, special-operations
		• Tagged: chemical fire, hazmat 


Parked Tanker Rolls Into Kentucky Creek
No comments







PIKEVILLE, Ky. (WSAZ) — A parked semi somehow ended up in creek in Pikeville, Ky. Monday morning.
Paul Maynard, the Public Safety Director for the City of Pikeville, says crews got the call about the semi around 8:45 Monday morning.
Maynard tells WSAZ.com that the driver of the semi parked the truck on a lot beside the road on Sunday. Right now, no one is sure how the parked semi ended up rolling backwards down the hill and into the creek.
The tanker normally carries liquid petroleum, but Maynard says the tank was empty and there was no spill. He also says there was no fuel spill from the cab of the semi
A tow truck was able to get the semi of the creek. There were no injuries.






Posted by Gary  Sharp
on May 3, 2010 •
		Filed under: hazmat, special-operations

 




 








New Up Loads
3/7/10 - Two crush syndrome EMS treatment protocols added to the Document page.   
2/28/10 - IED Stand Off Distance card added to the Cheat Sheet page


Current US Threat Level 




Homeland Security Live Alert

 State Urban Search & Rescue
Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Re: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011TrainingRe: Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011Canine Evaluations hosted by NJ-TF1 - September 24 and 25 2011
 Homeland Security News
Threats posted on White House Facebook pagePolice Meet Plane At Detroit Metro Airport911 Video – Remembering What We SawSouthwest Flight Diverted Over Suspicious PassengerTravelers Interviewed in 9/11 Terror Probe


Recent Comments
web design bangalore on Ohio Derailment Caused Brief Evacuation.Gav-070406 on Crush Syndrome…The Smiling DeathBLS Certification on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.Arrugha on Chemicals that have SH in the formula smell like $#!tArrugha on A Salt spill is an easy hazmat run…Unless you don’t know what it is.


 Sponsors
 
 



Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				



















