


Share
















Get this

















Wolfram Publications: Video Shows How Fast Texas Wildfire Spread













skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar






Wolfram Publications



Erik van Erne aka Milieunet is working on awareness and change of behaviour by means of communication about waste, energy, sustainability, nature, environment, climate, human rights and international development cooperation.



























Wednesday, September 7, 2011





Video Shows How Fast Texas Wildfire Spread





Video shot by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department shows how quickly a wildfire is moving through Bastrop State Park. At least two-thirds of the 6,000 acre park have burned.




op
03:32

















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz












0
reacties:
        






Post a Comment













Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)


















Popular Posts Last Week









Largest Crocodile Caught Alive In Philippines
The World's Largest Crocodile Being 21 Foot Long And Weighing 2,370 Pounds Was Finally Captured.   










New York City Mayors laud post-9/11 economy
New York City's current and former mayors highlight the revitalization of lower Manhattan in the days leading up to the 10th anniversary of ...





Seal meets girl. Seal falls in love with girl
"Just to let everyone know, since Ive been getting a few requests to use this video: This isnt my video, I just recieved it in an email, not...










A 9/11 hero named Red
A retired rescue dog of 9/11 now enjoys the good life in Annapolis, Maryland.   










OLED: Technology and Design
There is one thing we can be sure of regarding the light of the future: it will be versatile. Innovative lighting technologies illuminate th...










Dutch Profiles: Gstar Fashion Design - Denim Confection












September 11 2001 Tribute: Before and After 9/11
George W. Bush called this event the Pearl Harbor of the 21st century. Takes a look back at September 11, and the events that followed.  










President Barack Obama Presents American Jobs Act: Full Speech












The Rising: Rebuilding Ground Zero- Symbolism in Numbers












Power Out for Millions in California, Arizona, Mexico
Millions of people on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border were left without power Thursday after a major outage that extended from Arizona ...















Popular Posts This Month









Epic Lightning Strikes CN Tower Toronto












Hurricane Irene from the NOAA GOES-East satellite
Over the past week, Hurricane Irene has battered Puerto Rico, the Bahamas, North Carolina, and is now heading for the major metropolitan are...










Reporter caught in Hurricane Irene's intense wind
Hurricane Irene has begun its lumbering march up the East Coast of United States. Hurricane Irene has made landfall near Cape Lookout, North...










TEDxTC 2011: The Other Inconvenient Truth by Jonathan Foley
The Other Inconvenient Truth: How Agriculture is Changing the Face of Our Planet. We typically think of climate change as the biggest enviro...










Earthquake Jolts Washington, Workers Head Home
A magnitude 5.8 earthquake centered just 90 miles southwest of Washington, D.C. sent scores of workers streaming out of buildings there, dam...










A 5,9 Earthquake Rocks Washington Area, Felt on East Coast
A 5.9 magnitude earthquake centered in Virginia shook much of Washington, D.C., and was felt as far north as New York City.
 
 










Underground Tunnel Found in Bab al-Aziziya Compound in Tripoli
An underground tunnel and residence has been found beneath Tripoli's Bab al-Aziziya compound, where rebel fighters found phones, beds, and o...










Fun During Hurricane Irene at Times Square in New York
News cameras captured impromptu street hockey and soccer games in Times Square as rain and high winds blew through New York City ahead of a ...










Largest Crocodile Caught Alive In Philippines
The World's Largest Crocodile Being 21 Foot Long And Weighing 2,370 Pounds Was Finally Captured.   










French map of cesium-137 deposition from Fukushima shows the US more contaminated than Western Japan
According to France's CEREA simulation map of ground deposition of cesium-137 after Fukushima], the US, particularly the West Coast and part...















Popular Posts All Time









Model Vida Guerra's Naked Photo Shoot: Spice Up Your Life
Check out behind-the-scenes footage from Vida's hot "Spice Up Your Life" photo shoot and find out why she loves being vegetarian.   





Amazing Brick Machine Rolls Out Roads Like Carpet












The world needs more champions: Nike vs. Adidas Challenge
During a recent investigation, Greenpeace identified several major international clothing brands, including the sports giants adidas and Nik...










Explosions and Big Fire in Moerdijk (chemi-pack), Netherlands












Panasonic Announces Sustainable Smart Town Project: Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town
Panasonic's President Fumio Ohtsubo announced on May 26, 2011, it is working together with eight other companies in an eco-conscious smart c...










SuperTalent 2010 DARKO Kordic Dance with my father again







Amy Winehouse body removed from London home
The body of Amy Winehouse is removed after the singer is found dead at her London home.        





Solar-Powered Bikini Soaks Up the Rays, Powers Your iPhone, iPod or iPad
Brooklyn-based designer Andrew Schneider is now taking orders for his solar-powered bikini. Capable of charging your cellphone or MP3 player...










Epic Lightning Strikes CN Tower Toronto












Osama Bin Laden Killed
Yesterday, America's public enemy number one was killed 9 years, 7 months, and 20 days after the attack that changed the world forever. Osam...


















Empire Avenue















Subscribe Now: poweredby



























Translate Blog Now













Total Pageviews
















My Headlines

Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner 











Wowzio Live Activity Feed


Wowziograb this · news blog












Twitter Updates


Twitter Updates

follow me on Twitter














Search This Blog


Loading...













Milieunet Favorites














About Me





Erik van Erne, Wolfram Publications


Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands
Hello, i'm Erik van Erne, Born April 23 1952, living and working in Utrecht, The Netherlands. 

I'm general manager of Wolfram Publications working on awareness and change of behaviour by means of communication about waste, energy, sustainability, nature, environment, climate, human rights and international development cooperation. 

More about me: http://wieowie.nl/ErikvanErne

View my complete profile











Wie o Wie













Twitter Counter

Erik van Erne on Twitter Counter.com











Followers






















Google +













Vodpod Milieunet


Watch videos at Vodpod and more of my videosGet your video widget at Vodpod.













Subscribe To







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












Comments
















                Atom
              










Comments



















FriendFeed widget













Scoutle

















Anders Bekeken


Loading...












Scoutle

















FEEDJIT Live Traffic Map

Feedjit Live Blog Stats




















 




Video Bar


Loading...












Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(4946)



▼ 

September
(266)

Tectonic faults on Enceladus
The basics of the logarithmic Richter and Moment M...
Japan marks disasters six months on
The 9/11 Decade: The Clash of Civilizations?
I Am America by Krista Branch
Families Remember 9/11 Victims in New York
Mourners Visit New Sept. 11 Memorial
Names of 9/11 Victims Ring Out
President Barack Obama Reads From Bible During NYC...
Moment of Silence at Ground Zero
President Barack Obama, and George Bush Arrive at ...
77 US troops injured in suicide bomber strike on A...
10 Years After 9/11: Era of Endless Wars?
The September 11 decade
Haltingly, Flight 93 Memorial Takes Shape
September 11, 2001: the Day That Changed America
National September 11th Memorial Animated Construc...
A short animation memorial video about 9/11
TEDxDubbo 2011: Fuel vs Food, a Personal Passion b...
Requiem for a Team: Over 100,000 say farewell to L...
The History of the Glastonbury Festival
Floods affect millions in Pakistan
NASA GRAIL Spacecraft Launched on Lunar Mission
Remembering the fallen of the 9-11 terror attacks ...
Frost Over the World: Ten years after 9/11
The Rising: Rebuilding Ground Zero- Symbolism in N...
9/11:  Lessons Learned
New York City Mayors laud post-9/11 economy
Panetta, Petraeus Attend 9/11 Concert
The Indigenous Call: Take Back Our Future
Raghava KK: Shake up your story
Port Deposit, Maryland Still Under Water
OLED: Technology and Design
Video Showing Velve OLED Lighting Panels by Verbat...
Back to the Start by Johnny Kelly
Back to the Start by Johnny Kelly
Back For The Future: The Nike MAG
The Nike MAG shoes have arrived
Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening Ceremony Full Versio...
Magnitude 6,7 Earthquake off Vancouver Island felt...
9/11 The Reckoning: The Sky Cowboys
ISS Astronaut Remembers 9/11
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg: 9/11 Memorial Of...
Stocks Plunge As Worries About Europe Intensify
UN marks 10th anniversary of terrorist attacks aga...
Blind: Short Film of a Post Nuclear Tokyo
Supermodels Take It Off For Climate Change
Save Our Planet by Michael Jackson
'Chalet Girl' Trailer
I'm Yours (Live On Earth Single Video) by Jason Mr...
Wanted: new correspondents for Metropolis!
Greenpeace 40 Years: A Conversation in Pictures
Tropical storm Lee floods US
The Lucky One: Meet the only hockey player who did...
Goodbye, Lokomotiv! Video of heartbreaking farewel...
Japanese town struggles to rebuild
A 9/11 hero named Red
Hope on hallowed ground
State of the Enemy: Al-Qaida Ten Years Later
Economy vs Environment: An Animation by WWF Brasil...
Save our Planet
Days of Rain Cause Deadly Flooding in Northeast U....
China's empty city of Ordos: An Amazing Ghost Town...
What is the La Nina phenomenon?
September 11 2001 Tribute: Before and After 9/11
The 'war on terror'
'Ground Zero' Disappearing, WTC Is Back
At the Heart of Ground Zero
Sept 11 2001-2011:  A time to remember, a time to ...
Wings for the fallen: 9/11 in metal
Lee Cronin: Making matter come alive
Thing-O-Matic,'prints' Objects in 3D: Botcave
Millions affected by floods in Pakistan
Officials Chase Unconfirmed Al-Qaida Bomb Plot
Save the Earth
La Nina returns to disrupt global weather patterns...
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: Sustainable develop...
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: Sustainable develop...
TEDxEastHamton 2011: The Economy of Values by Davi...
Climate Change? Floods Plague Eastern U.S.
Unusual 4.2 Earthquake Struck Eastern Part of the ...
Power Out for Millions in California, Arizona, Mex...
President Barack Obama Presents American Jobs Act:...
David Plouffe Previews The President's Jobs Speech...
ZEEP24, a new energy supply system using sunlight,...
ZEEP24, a new energy supply system using sunlight,...
Lightning Motorcycle World's Fastest Electric Supe...
PlantLab Brings High-Tech Vertical Farming To The ...
Super Green  Eco Superyacht: Soliloquy
Dockside Green Story: "Natural Growth", Victoria B...
World Ozone Day 2011: September 16th
Indian organic farming natural technique
The Blue Planet 32E: A 32 Foot Torqeedo Electric P...
2011 Volkswagen Electric NILS Concept Debuts at Fr...
Saudi Arabia Gets Ready for a Fully Sustainable Fi...
Turning The Ghetto Green
Eco Solar Electric Hybrid Marine Powered Tonbo Con...
Shipping vessels could cut emissions by using sola...
Uncommon Ideals by Chris McClean & Mark Waters
All New 2011 Citroen Tubik Concept at the Frankfur...
Elusive Golden Cat Filmed in Western by Panthera A...
Texas Wildfires: 'There's nothing left of these ho...
Texas battles fires for 290+ days
How to Make A Green Museum: The Museum of Liverpoo...
CSR Minute: Gardens for Good Contest Facebook Camp...
TEDx25thWard 2011: Heroic Delight and Tragic Ends ...
TEDxSantaCruz 2011: Building A Caring Economy by R...
ISS's New View of Texas Wildfires
UN forum seeks ways to improve lives of persons wi...
New York Yankees Hold Ceremony to Mark 9/11 Annive...
Hybrid sports-car:  the Jaguar C-X16 in motion
TEDxLex 2011: The Emotional Effect of Video Games ...
International Space Station Cameras Hone In on Hur...
Electric Rescue Vehicle by Gadi Dudler Design
One Tonne Life project: Results
Largest Crocodile Caught Alive In Philippines
Video Shows How Fast Texas Wildfire Spread
Climate Change and the Somalian Drought Crisis
Unscrambling Climate Change: NASA's New Flying Eye...
Brazilian wind power on the rise: 7.2 GW by 2014
Fukushima Radioactive Cesium 137 Amounts to 168 Hi...
Clean Water + Energy = Peace
Tidal and Wave Energy in New Zealand
Offshore Energy Parks Combining Wind, Wave and Sol...
New Floating Wind Turbine Concept Animation
Peugeot HX1 Concept Trailer 2011
CSR Minute: General Motors Introduces Non-Toxic, W...
The Second Day Trailer
Pentavalent Vaccine Saves Lives
Burning Trees for Energy Increases Carbon Pollutio...
In South Pacific, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon wi...
"Real Changes": President Clinton Discusses The Pu...
Texas Wildfires Seen from International Space Stat...
Happy Happy Trailer: Release Date: 15 September 20...
The M&S and Oxfam Clothes Exchange
Euro zone debt fears weigh on stocks
RecyclePix App is Fun!
Curiosity: What's Beneath America? September 11, 2...
New breast imaging system hailed as "breakthrough"...
Mayor Jim Dear Breathes Better in Carson, Californ...
Missouri American Water: Hope Project
FRONTLINE Preview "Faith and Doubt at Ground Zero"...
Washington Week Examines How 9/11 Changed Journali...
Great Solar Car Invented by a Jamaican
Euro-Explosion: 'Tax-crazed govts act as catalyst ...
The Life and Career of Muhammad Ali
Van Rompuy confident about reaching Greek bailout ...
Unintended consequences by Edward Tenner
European Commission Pesident, Jose Manuel Barroso:...
Barroso: "We will do everything is necessary to ke...
Dutch Profiles: Dick Bruna IIllustrator - Miffy
Trashy Bags Rap by Oboy Sly
Dutch Profiles: 2012Architects Waste Architects - ...
UNDP Goodwill Ambassador  Marta visit to Sierra Le...
Seal meets girl. Seal falls in love with girl
Dutch Profiles: Gstar Fashion Design - Denim Confe...
Powerful 6.6-magnitude earthquake hits Sumatra: Ea...
Dutch Profiles: Claudy Jongstra Felt Designer - Li...
24 Hours of Reality in Times Square
Dutch Profiles: MVRDV Architecture - Market Hall
24 Hours of Reality: The Truth About Climate Chang...
Dutch Profiles: Alexander van Slobbe Fashion Desig...
Sony Unveils Android Tablet S And Tablet P
Dutch Profiles: Joost Grootens Atlas and Architect...
Sharp Freestyle Aquos Ultra-light LCD TVs
Dutch Profiles: Carver Automotive Design - Dynamic...
2011 'Tokai Challenger' Solar Car Will Enter The W...
Killer Typhoon Tallas Brings More Misery to Japan
Dutch Profiles: Gerard Unger Type and Graphic Desi...
Trashy Bags Africa: Fantastic in Plastic
Dutch Profiles: Jurgen Bey Furniture and Product D...
Typhoon Talas leaves deaths and landslides in Japa...
Thank for donating to the East Africa Food Crisis
Happy Birthday Message to Beyoncé from Stevie Wond...
Capital of Scrap: Dying Detroit looting itself
Happy Feet: Wayward Penguin Released South of New ...
Dutch Profiles: NL Architects Architecture & Infra...
60 Million Dollar Views: Space Hotel makes E.T. to...
Controversial Dam Project in Mekong River in Laos ...
Tropical Storm Lee Bears Down on Gulf States
Dutch Profiles: Willem van der Sluis Customer Prod...
Tropical Storm Lee Soaks Gulf Coast and Knocked Ou...
Somalia refugee camp hit diarrhoea and measles
New Orleans Mayor: Tropical Storm Lee Still Danger...
Dutch Profiles: Marlies Dekkers Lingerie Designer
GB's 'eqo' collection inspired by Cradle to Cradle...
Dutch Profiles: Paul Mijksenaar Information Design...
Whale Wars: Japanese End Whaling Season Early
Bahrain Centre for Human Rights on activists' hung...
Electric Roadster of the Future: Volkswagen NILS C...
This Week @NASA: Tracking Katia and the NPP Satell...
Rain-Packed Tropical Storm Lee Forms in Gulf
TEDxTC 2011: The Other Inconvenient Truth by Jonat...
Women celebrate in Tripoli's Martyrs' square: The ...
U.S. Geothermal's Renewable Energy 'First' for Ore...
Find out more about Renewable Energy
Electric Solar Wind Turbine Boat
Hybrid Energy Power System at The Majlis Resort La...
Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Disaster is Like the TIT...
French map of cesium-137 deposition from Fukushima...
Barclays Bank launch £100 million renewable energy...
Undressed by Marlies Dekkers: A Cradle to Cradle C...
University of Maryland Unveils 631kW Rooftop Solar...
TEDxPLAZACIBELES 2011: Green ICTs Cradle to Cradle...
Nagasaki Garden Ideology 2011 by Nico Wissing
About Cradle to Cradle
The Largest Tidal Power Plant in The World: Lake S...
White Swan Estuary Urban Design Guangzhou, China
The Peugeot 2020 HX1 MPV Concept at Frankfurt Moto...
Dutch Profiles: Philips Ambient Expierence Design
Tribute in Light: September 11
Lithium Hawk Homebuilt High-Performance Three-Whee...
The most powerful electric car on earth: The Quime...
Less is More: The Electric Tuk-Tuk by Audric Galzy...
The Electric Smart ForVision Concept at Frankfurt ...
Smart ForSpeed Concept
Dutch Profiles: Koninklijke Tichelaar Makkum - Mus...
New eco friendly plug-in hybrid bus by Volvo
Dutch Profiles: Ted Noten Jewelry Designer - Haunt...
Five More UN-REDD Partner Countries Start Implemen...
REDD as part of the solution by United Nations
Dutch Profiles: Irma Boom Graphic Designer - Not J...
Dutch Profiles: Vlisco Fashion Design  - Wax Print...
Dutch Profiles: Benthem Crouwel Architects - Resto...
Muhammad Ali and Yank Barry in Morocco: Still The ...
Dutch Profiles: Rem Koolhaas Architects - Taipei p...
The International Quiet Ocean Experiment by UNESCO...
UNICEF: oneminutesjr.- Christian's Ten Rules
Dutch Profiles: Atelier van Lieshout - Funky Bones...
Global Village Champion Muhammad Ali's Greatest Fi...
Dutch Profiles: Pi de Bruin Architect - Roombeek E...
Kimberly-Clark Raising the Bar On Sustainability
Dutch Profiles: Neutelings Riedijk Architects - Sc...
Four Seasons Hotels Planting 10 Million Trees Arou...
Dutch Profiles: Atelier Kempe Thill Architects - H...
Working on Environmental Solutions at 3M
Re-thinking Progress: The Circular Economy
Dutch Profiles: Powerhouse Company Architecture - ...
Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Invents Solar Spra...
Re-Use It: Junk Is Junk
Katia's Newest View from Space Station Cameras
Samsung Galaxy S II Official Launch
UNESCO Int'l Literacy Day: September 8 2011
Hurricane Katia From Space: second of the Hurrican...
Expanding Wings & Water
Gisele Bündchen prepares the Forests Challenge at ...
Dutch Profiles: ZUS Zones Urbaines Sensibles - Cit...
Dutch Profiles: Kossmann en de Jong Exibition Arch...
Rising: Rebuilding Ground Zero - A Gateway to New ...
Up (and Down) from Ground Zero
Rising: Rebuilding Ground Zero - A Gateway to New ...
Dutch Profiles: Francisco van Benthum Fashion Desi...
People & Power - Cuba: The times are changing
Chemical poison? Yellow cloud chokes Russian Urals...
Climate Change and Global Disasters
Who Pays the Cost for Climate Change?
Two Sumatran Tiger Cubs Play for Camera
Rosa, a robot part of the KERNEL project:  Officia...
The Tomatina Battle: Spanish Town All Red in Tomat...
Smash and Grab Chimps: Apes in Danger
The Galápagos's Sierra Negra Volcano Erupts: Lava ...
Chu Says U.S. Energy Security 'Trade Off' Favors O...
Dutch Profiles: Thonik Graphic Design
Dutch Profiles: Gilian Schrofer Interior Designer
Japan Tsunami Tore Huge Ice Chunk Off Antarctica
Giga-Tons Of Ice Crawl Off Antarctica








          ► 
        


August
(775)







          ► 
        


July
(749)







          ► 
        


June
(518)







          ► 
        


May
(640)







          ► 
        


April
(490)







          ► 
        


March
(697)







          ► 
        


February
(411)







          ► 
        


January
(400)









          ► 
        


2010
(3638)





          ► 
        


December
(247)







          ► 
        


November
(238)







          ► 
        


October
(376)







          ► 
        


September
(358)







          ► 
        


August
(274)







          ► 
        


July
(486)







          ► 
        


June
(465)







          ► 
        


May
(572)







          ► 
        


April
(350)







          ► 
        


March
(113)







          ► 
        


February
(65)







          ► 
        


January
(94)









          ► 
        


2009
(688)





          ► 
        


December
(150)







          ► 
        


November
(76)







          ► 
        


October
(80)







          ► 
        


September
(27)







          ► 
        


August
(28)







          ► 
        


July
(42)







          ► 
        


June
(100)







          ► 
        


May
(115)







          ► 
        


April
(67)







          ► 
        


March
(1)







          ► 
        


January
(2)









          ► 
        


2008
(208)





          ► 
        


November
(8)







          ► 
        


September
(1)







          ► 
        


July
(15)







          ► 
        


June
(17)







          ► 
        


May
(83)







          ► 
        


April
(84)

















Milieunet on StumbleUpon














Delicious Cloud













Google News





















