Moe Lane » 2010 » December








Home
About
Liber Licentiae Moeticae
GURPS 4E Thumbnail Alternate Earths.
Webcomics I admit reading.
Filthy Lucre.  Filthy. Lucre.













Moe Lane
I am an evil giraffe. So "don't call my bluff."

















         Dec
31
         2010         


--












And now, a special 2011 New Year’s message…

…from General Chang:

Skip ahead to 0:13.
Better suits my mood than a music video, anyway.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war, general chang 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
31
         2010         


7












#rsrh My 2011 predictions thread.

Mind you, the track record for my predictions for 2010 were…”eh” is probably the best word for it.  Then again, I’m glad I was wrong on a couple of them.
So, here goes:

Congress will engage in full-scale war on the second day of the 112th Congress, and continue on for the rest of the winter and spring sessions.
The President will disappoint his base with his State of the Union speech.
There will be a maximum of three Supreme Court justices at the SotU.  Two of them will be Obama appointees.
Republicans will win all three of the Louisiana, Kentucky, and Mississippi gubernatorial elections.  Of these, the Kentucky one will be the most surprising result and the Louisiana will feature the most vicious rhetoric by the opposition candidate.
Michael Steele will not be re-elected RNC chair.
DoMA will not be repealed.
The individual mandate in Obamacare will be declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, but the larger law will be deemed severable from it.
Obamacare will be given the legislative equivalent of a curbstomping.  At least one repeal will make it all the way to the President’s desk for a veto.  Less publicly, Obamacare will swiftly get a name in the Beltway as being a place where government careers go to die.
The 112th Congress will otherwise spend its first year concentrating on correcting the fiscal mistakes of the 110th and 111th.
The Governor of Hawaii will release the President’s long-form birth certificate, which will show that the President was just [expletive deleted] born in Hawaii already… and which will still not convince some people.
The President will finally have somebody that he cares about tell him to stop spending Christmas in Hawaii; Camp David exists for a reason, and the Obamas will spend all remaining Presidential Christmases there.
The President will get another vacancy on the Supreme Court to fill.  He will pick a liberal, who will eventually withdraw – and get replaced with another, less obnoxious liberal, who will be confirmed.
A Cabinet member who is not Secretary of State will resign.  His successor will have the obligatory tax problems, and be forced to withdraw her name from consideration.
We will still be in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Gitmo on 12/31/2011.
Two Republican Senators and five Democratic ones will announce their retirement; the media will obsess over the former and ignore the latter utterly, despite the fact that this will be later be seen as a direct cause of the Republican takeover of the Senate in 2012.
Between six and fifteen Democratic Congressmen – including at least one Ranking Member – will likewise announce their retirements.  In most cases this will not eventually result in a shift of the seat.
Mitt Romney, Mike Huckabee, and Sarah Palin will not be running for President by the end of 2011.
And, finally: there’s going to be a dramatic breakthrough in physics, on the level of the Michaelson-Morley experiment.  Mostly because we’re about due for one.

 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: predictions 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
31
         2010         


5












Quote (and Thought) of the Day, WSJ edition.

The Wall Street Journal’s editorial page despises the current leadership of the Democratic party as only a group of people with an iconic link to free-market capitalism can be, and said despising shines through every word of this piece sneering at the ‘accomplishments’ of the 111th Congress. Scare quotes deliberate: the WSJ opines (and I agree) that the Democrats are guessing and gambling that they can get their hideously unpopular agenda functional for long enough that people will simply start treating it as part of the landscape.  I think that that is wishful thinking on the Democrats’ part, and so does the WSJ:
The difference between the work of the 111th Congress and that of either  the Great Society or New Deal is that the latter were bipartisan and in  the main popular. This Congress’s handiwork is profoundly unpopular and  should become more so as its effects become manifest. In 2010,  Americans saw liberalism in the raw and rejected it. The challenge for  Republicans is to repair the damage before it becomes permanent.
So get your game faces on. 2011 is going to make 2009 look like the first Woodstock.
Moe Lane (crosspost) (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: 112th congress, obamacare, wall street journal 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
31
         2010         


1












I can still think that “Batman, Incorporated…”

…is kind of goofball, right?  I mean, I got no quarrel with Randy’s take on the French Muslim Batman of Paris (sounds like a modern art painting title), but the idea of franchising the Caped Crusader seems a bit… weird.
Mind you, I don’t currently buy Batman comics, so I can probably be safely ignored anyway. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: batman, everything is better with batman, i'm batman 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
31
         2010         


--












Rosie the Riveter, [cough]-2010.

The [cough] is because a gentleman does not refer to a lady’s age without the lady’s prior consent.  Or so my parents (Democrats) taught me, at least.  Suffice it to say that Geraldine Hoff Doyle (the inspiration for the “We Can Do It!” poster) had a full life, and by accounts a happy one.
Via Hillbuzz.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: geraldine hoff doyle, rosie the riveter, we can do it 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
31
         2010         


2












The “Sucker Punch” trailer.


Wait, what?
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: movies, sucker punch 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
31
         2010         


5












Paul Ryan given power to bind and to loose.

Mostly ‘bind.‘
Elections.
Have.
Consequences.
And here’s one coming up, now: the incoming House majority will be establishing a rule that will give the House Budget chair the ability to set the spending ceiling for any 2011 budget.  This rule is currently causing House Democrats to freak out like koalas deprived of their eucalyptus leaves/junkies deprived of their heroin/hipsters deprived of their iPhones, for two reasons:

The Democrats never passed a budget in 2010, so this is going to affect spending for this fiscal year.  A lot.
Who is going to be the House Budget chair?  Why, Rep. Paul “Embrace the sweet pain that comes from cutting entitlements” Ryan.

And when I say “freak out,” I mean freak out: the Democrats are so upset about this that they’ve lost all control of their higher brain functions and have reverted to babbling about Social Security privatization.  And unilateralism!  We haven’t heard that one in a while. (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: elections have consequences, paul ryan 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
30
         2010         


3












#rsrh Democrats involved in LA housing payola?

Via Instapundit, it’s time for another game of…
NAME!
THAT!
PARTY!
Two high-level state officials have frozen nearly $150,000 in campaign contributions raised for them by a low-income housing developer now accused of bilking government agencies.
State Treasurer Bill Lockyer and state Controller John Chiang said they have put the money into separate accounts while they await the outcome of a federal probe into Advanced Development and Investment Inc [ADI]. The company has built dozens of subsidized apartment complexes up and down the state with taxpayer money.
 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: adi, campaign fraud, election fraud, fraud, la 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
30
         2010         


--












Meth Monkeys… those funky monkeys…

Speaking of Iowahawk, he is why I may now salute Jeff Bobo of Timesnews.net, who has brightened my day by writing the perfect intro to a news article.
The Hawkins County Sheriff’s Office is well trained and  experienced in a  variety of meth lab scenarios, but they entered  uncharted waters  Friday afternoon with the added element of four live  monkeys.
Tell me that you don’t want to read the whole thing, now.  Go ahead.  Make me believe you.
Moe Lane
PS: No, you probably shouldn’t have hoped for more monkey-related carnage.  First, because that’s not very nice; second… dude.  You expect a lot from monkey minions mentored by a man who makes meth.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: everything is better with monkeys, meth, monkeys, this won't end well 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
30
         2010         


5












#rsrh Why do I bother?

…I mean, really, what’s the point of being snarky, in a world that has Iowahawk in it?
Yeah, yeah, go read the whole blipping thing.  I’ll be in the corner, whimpering like a whipped dog.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: ezra klein, yet another f*cking spectacular iowahawk post 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
30
         2010         


5












Klein’s Crazy Constitutional Commentary.

(H/T Instapundit) This comment is going to haunt Ezra Klein for the rest of his career as a ‘wonk:’

…as it should, because it was an incredibly stupid thing to say – even considering that it was said on MSNBC, which means that almost nobody saw it anyway.  For those without video access, Klein (in the process of sneering at the GOP’s plan to start the 112th Congress with a reading of the Constitution*) rather bravely admitted that he has a learning disability which makes it difficult for him to read English properly:
The issue with the Constitution is not that people don’t read the text and think they’re following it. The issue with the Constitution is that the text is confusing because it was written more than a hundred years ago.
At least, I assume that’s what he’s admitting.  Because the alternative is to take seriously his notion that there really is something difficult to comprehend about a document so simple and straightforward that its mere existence argues strenuously against the notion that nothing well-written ever comes out of committee.
As you might have guessed, I am not taking seriously Klein’s notion.
Moe Lane (crosspost)
 (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: constitution, ezra klein 
Share on Facebook














         Dec
30
         2010         


--












NYC not weathering storm well, apparently.

No, there can be no forgiveness for that pun.

More photoshoppery here.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: snow, star wars 
Share on Facebook












Older Posts »


























 ARE YOU LOOKING AT COLLEGE TEXTBOOK PRICES, AND HAVING A CORONARY?  CLICK HERE.




Contact me.






Amount




--

The link above goes to the account paying site fees.






Blogroll

A Chequer-Board of Nights and Days (Updated)
A Conservative Lesbian
Age of Sail
Baseball Crank
Blog of Much Holding
Blueshelled
Confessions of a Political Junkie
David Thompson
Fausta’s Blog
Foundation
Hawk’s Plateau
Hickpolitics
Jeff Emanuel
Kevin Holtsberry
Liber Ex Machina
Lileks
Little Miss Attila
Markets & Policy
NTCNews
Piece of Work in Progress
Publius Forum
Rathergate (In Memoriam)


Contributors

Countup from Dystopia
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Humor

Cracked.com
Lowering the Bar
The Manolo
TV Tropes
Websnark
Weekly World News


Politics

Ace of Spades
ActiCons
Barack Obama’s Teleprompter’s Blog
Big Hollywood
Camille Paglia
Conservative Grapevine
Deceiver.com
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
IMAO
Instapundit
Jim Treacher
Jules Crittenden
Legal Insurrection
Mickey Kaus
Protein Wisdom
Reason Hit & Run
Red Dog Report
RedState
Right Wing News
The Daily Beast
The Gormogons
The New Ledger
The Other McCain
The Skepticians
What’s Wrong with the World


Reciprocal

American Elephants
Apropos of Nothing
BigGator5
HotMES
Point of a gun
Pragmatic American
The Skepticrats
The Sundries Shack
Track a ‘Crat


The Glorious Moeticae Family Empire

Liber Licentiae Moeticae
Mi Contra Fa (My wife’s site)
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Recent Comments Moe_Lane: You seem to be under the impression that Krugman’s head being filled with cheese would downgrade his...
Kresh: I suppose there’s easier ways of saying “I warned you about the aliens because they’re here...
jetty: Too bad that the Dems don’t control both the House and Senate – they could just deem it passed,...
Demosthenes: We have to pass the bill so we can find out who wrote it.
Catseye: Everyone is asleep, I don’t want to wake them up, but that hurt. It still does, it always will. Ah the...
Moe_Lane: Mike: Apparently Obama does.
Mike: So, you don’t believe in passing a bill without either reading it or have the paper necessary to sign it?
Catseye: Krugman. The Capering, Gibbering, Fool for the Left has managed to Finally outdo himself. That is all...
 Twittermoelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY September 12, 2011moelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY […]moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz September 12, 2011moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz […]moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. September 12, 2011moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. […] Technorati Profile








The background is from Maxfield Parrish's Ecstasy, and is (to the best to my knowledge) in the public domain.
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Tag Cloudbarack obama
book of the week
California
congress
cpac
damned lies
dccc
democratic party
democrats
dnc
doom
elections
Florida
harry reid
health care
illinois
illinois combine
israel
joe biden
lies
massachusetts
missouri
movie of the week
nancy pelosi
new jersey
new york
nrcc
obama
obamacare
ohio
pennsylvania
qotd
rasmussen
sarah palin
senate
statistics
stimulus
tea parties
tea party
texas
that woman
unemployment
virginia
webcomics
wisconsin












Site by Neil Stevens
 | Theme by TheBuckmaker.com






