lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2011 » March






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Thursday, March 31, 2011
George Tooker

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:51 pm 
 


When I was a teenager, I subscribed to a rather bizarre and eclectic experimental magazine called Avant Garde, published by Ralph Ginzburg. The value of its contents varied, but I remember one thing about it above all else —  in one of the issues it introduced me to the work of American painter George Tooker. 
Compared at times to Andrew Wyeth and at times to Edward Hopper, Tooker’s work defies being pigeonholed. People have tried to make his individualistic square peg fit in the round holes of Surrealism, Symbolism, Magic Realism and God knows what other isms, without clear success. 
Tooker’s paintings, painstakingly and deliberately rendered in the demanding Renaissance medium of egg tempera, evoke loneliness, alienation, and the dehumanizing forces of modern society. Some of his works are well known, almost iconic images, though his name is not a household word.
His enigmatic scenes of eclipsed faces, half glimpsed figures and slack bodied individuals with haunted expressions seem to portray people resigned to their fate as the invisible vampires of modern existence drain away their life and humanity — though there are occasional glimpses of light and life — disconcerting, but powerful and unforgettably resonant images.
Tooker died last Sunday, March 27, 2011, at the age of 90.  Unfortunately, there isn’t a really good source on the web for a large number of Tooker’s works.
Ten Dreams probably has the best selection of Tooker’s work on the web, but the viewing method is deliberately terrible. You have to launch each image in a full-screen pop-up window, then mouse over the image area and wait for the image to load in order to see it (because you’re a thief, you see), then close the window and select the next image. 
(I suppose they think they’re making it hard for people to grab the images with these shenanigans; they need to do a little more research to understand that they’re only discouraging the most casual users from getting them, and in the process alienating many potential visitors who will find the site too much of a PITA to deal with; but I digress…)
The largest images of Tooker’s work I’ve found are on the Smithsonian American Art Museum including The Waiting Room.
Next best for large images are Terra Foundation (one zoomable) and  Sothey’s sold archives (two zoomable).
There are print collections of Tooker’s work: George Tooker, by Robert Cozzolino, Marshall N. Price and M. Melissa Wolfe, is in print, you may find others used, like George Tooker by Thomas H. Garver, George Tooker: Paintings, 1947-1973 and George Tooker.
There is a Cleveland Museum of Art documentary on YouTube in three parts, Part 1, Part 2, Part 3.
[Notice via ArtDaily]


Link: Smithsonian American Art Museum (including The Waiting Room)
 Terra Foundation
Sothey's sold archives
Addison Gallery (drawings)
Brooklyn Museum
IMA
Whitney Museum of American Art (The Subway)
Hirshhorn Museum
Kemper Art Museum
NBMAA
YouTube, Part 1, Part 2, Part 3.
George Tooker on Ten Dreams
AskArt, and here
ArtNet, and here
RoGallery, and here
Race & Ethnicity
ArtDaily
Bio and obit on Boston.com
Bio and obit on Artfix Daily
Bio on Wikipedia
Essay on Chez Namaste Nancy
Artcyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   20 Comments »


Wednesday, March 30, 2011
Not the usual Van Goghs

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:25 pm 
 


Browse through a dozen different books on Vincent van Gogh and chances are you’ll see many of the same paintings again and again. 
You might be tempted to think he had a limited oeuvre, but nothing could be further from the truth. Van Gogh was astonishingly prolific, particularly in light of the fact that his active career barely spanned 10 years. The books, except for the most complete, have simply chosen to play it safe by repeating his “greatest hits”.
In honor of Van Gogh’s birthday, here is a modest selection of some works you don’t often see. These were taken from the Vincent van Gogh Gallery website (see my post here), where you can find many more.


Link: Vincent van Gogh Gallery
Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam
Some relevant Lines and Colors posts:
Vincent van Gogh Gallery
Van Gogh's self-portraits
Tilt-Shift Van Gogh
Van Gogh's Letters
Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night
Van Gogh's Drawings
How Van Gogh Made His Mark
Restoration of Van Gogh's The Bedroom
Van Gogh's yellows turning brown
Van Gogh and Picasso  on The power of Art

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   7 Comments »


Tuesday, March 29, 2011
George Nick

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:24 pm 
 


Contemporary realist painter George Nick is highly regarded by his peers, by students who encountered him in his 25 years of teaching at Massachusetts College of Art, where he is now Professor Emeritus, by literary luminaries like John Updike, who wrote an essay In Praise of George Nick,  and by major museums, including the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Hirschorn Museum, the Corcoran Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian American Art Museum, which have his works in their collections.
Nick applies brusque, textural brushwork to an unapologetically direct depiction of his subjects, whether   architectural aspects of Boston, rural landscapes, Venetian canals, simple room interiors or unstintingly honest portraits and self portraits.
I think reviewer John Goodrich gets what I like most about Nick’s work when he describes a “…spirited approach — call it an Impressionist’s love of light, delivered with Expressionistic panache…“. 
Nick has a fascination with geometric patterns in both the forms of his subjects and in the areas of light and shadow within and around them, and his energetic application of paint brings that forward in addition to adding its own dimension of textural visual pleasure.
He can be in turns more or less refined, seeming over the course of his career to be experimenting, restless but always observant. He likes to work onsite, even with large canvasses, and conveys that plein air immediacy in his interiors as well as his landscapes and cityscapes.
Nick is represented in Boston by Gallery Naga. There are a few other sources for his work online, mostly articles, some illustrated with his work, including a six part interview on Painting Perceptions. There is also an informative essay by Nick’s former student Christopher Chippendale, Enroute with George Nick.
The largest reproductions of his canvasses I’ve found are the two in the Smithsonian American Art Museum.
The most extensive collection of his work online, however, is a terrific site at GeorgeNick.com. This is an unofficial site assembled and maintained out of respect and admiration by one of Nick’s former students, Larry Groff. 
[Via Mike Manley]


Link: GeorgeNick.com
Gallery Naga
Smithsonian American Art Museum
Concord Art Association
ArtNet
Interview on Painting Perceptions
Enroute with George Nick
Article about Nick painting on location on BostonZest
Article on ArtCritical
Article on New York Studio School

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »


Monday, March 28, 2011
Blacksad (Juanjo Guarnido)

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:51 pm 
 


There is a genre of comics and animated cartoons called “funny animal”, referring to animal characters that have anthropomorphic characteristics. Even if the genre name is unfamiliar, some of the characters are among the best known, e.g. Mickey mouse and Bugs Bunny.
Much less familiar to the general public is a sub-genre, sometimes called “furry”, “furries” or “anthropromorphics”, in which the animal characters are anthropomorphised to a greater degree, often taking on basically a human form with an animal head, as well as human gender characteristics (the latter is sometimes emphasized, to put it politely). 
I can’t say this is one of my favorite comics genres, as I often find the the concept silly to the point of detracting from the story.
However, there is a series of comics albums from Europe called Blacksad that have upended my take on the subject, simply by being so superbly done. 
The creators, writer Juan Díaz Canales and artist Juanjo Guarnido are Spanish, but the books are published in French by French publisher Dargaud for the extensive comics market in France and Belgium, where they have been tremendously popular, and later released in Spanish language and other editions. 
Fortunately for those of us who speak English, Dark Horse Comics has collected an published in English translations the first three volumes of the series, in a hardcover edition simply titled Blacksad (Amazon link).
The story is essentially a film noir hard-boiled detective series, John Blacksad being the lead character in that role, who just happens to be portrayed as a black cat. 
Other characters are portrayed as various animals, weasels, hippos, dogs, whatever the authors saw as appropriate for their character. The stories are adult in nature, not children’s fare.
What swayed me from my usual reluctance to read comics with this kind of characterization was Guarnido’s stunning comic art, wonderfully realized characters, animal heads or no, and beautifully rendered backgrounds and settings.
Fortunately, there are a number of sources for previewing the pages, both from the Dark Horse book and the European editions, so you can see for yourself what I mean.
Linked from the Dark Horse page for the book is  a 4 page preview. You can also view a preview flip book that is a bit more extensive (though smaller and hampered by one of those annoyingly stupid page flippy widgets).
There is also an 8 page preview of the Dark Horse volume on Hypergeek, and the Amazon.com listing has a 6 page preview, with covers and additional inner pages.
There is a Blacksad.com site, which may or may not be official, I don’t know, as well as fan site, Blacksadmania. Both are in French and feature sketches, preliminary art, pencilled pages and more. There is another fan site here, and some non-Blacksad work by Guarnido on The Drawing Board.
Spanish site Guía del cómic has a page about the newest Spanish language volume, Blacksad #4: El Infierno, El Silenco (French edition is titled Blacksad #4 L’enfer, le silence). They have a 9 page preview, the first three of which are posted larger than the other page previews. 
Additional large pages from that volume have been posted, along with other pages and additional art, on a blog called Blacksad Gallery, another offshoot of the Character Design Blog and The Art Center that I wrote about recently.
[Suggestion courtesy of James Gurney]


Link: Blacksad (Dark Horse Comics, Amazon link)
Dark Horse page with previewand flip book
Blacksad Gallery
8 page preview on Hypergeek
Blacksad.com
Blacksadmania
Blacksad #4 on Guía del cómic 
Fan site
Article on Wikipedia, with links
French discussion board
Non-Blacksad work by Guarnido on The Drawing Board
Juanjo Guarnido on Lambiek.net

Posted in:  Comics   |   2 Comments »


Sunday, March 27, 2011
Sir Frank Dicksee

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:45 pm 
 


Sir Frank Dicksee was an English painter and illustrator active in the Victorian era. 
Originally taught by his father, artist Thomas Dicksee, along with his brother, Herbert, and sister, Margaret, who were also artists of note, Frank Dicksee went on to study at the Royal Academy. There he learned from renowned painters like Frederick Lord Leighton and Pre-Raphaelite master Sir John Everett Millais.
Like the Pre-Raphaelites and other Victorian painters, Dicksee took much inspiration in literary works, in particular Shakespeare, interpreting scenes like the balcony scene from Romeo and Juliet (image above, top) more than once.
Dicksee’s lushly colored, richly detailed works evoke the romance of his literary sources, as well as projecting romance into his elegant portraits.
He was a staunch believer in the traditions and beauty of Victorian High Art, and was vehemently opposed to the dissolution of those traditions at the hands of the early 20th Century Modernists.
The Google Art Project (see my post here) features a zoomable image of Dicksee’s The Two Crowns from the Tate Britain (image and detail, above, bottom). While not as high resolution as the larger images on the project, it’s probably the largest reproduction of a Frank Dicksee painting you’ll find on the web. (The reproduction is a bit murky; I’ve taken the liberty of color correcting it here.)


Link: Sir Frank Dicksee on ArtMagick (note three pages of images)
Art Renewal Center
Disksee's The Two Crowns on Google Art Project
Tate Britain
Illusions Gallery
Humanities Web
NGV
Manchester City Galleries
Royal Academy of Arts
Sotheby's Archives
Leicester Galleries
Artcyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   7 Comments »


Friday, March 25, 2011
The Art Center (blog)

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:35 pm 
 


The Art Center is a blog devoted to, as the tagline says, “Sharing Ideas and Tips from Artist to Artist”. 
An offshoot of the Character Design blog, which is devoted largely to interviews with artists working in the film, gaming and illustration fields, The Art Center features tutorials, walk-throughs, how to videos and discussions of process and technique for character design, concept art, storyboarding an other aspects of related visual art. 
It also includes basic tips on painting, drawing, composition and rendering in various media, including digital painting.
You’ll find a list of the contributors, all working artists in related fields, on the left side of the blog, and a list of topic and artist tags on the right. The artists list is linked to the contributor’s blogs and websites, so you can click through to see more of their art.
You’ll have to put up with poke-your-eye-out graphic design, trying to read bright green text and bright red titles on a black background (what are they thinking?), but for those working in this vein, the tips and techniques are worth the effort.
(Images above: Florian Satzinger, Rad Sechrist, Hat Lieberman, Mark McDonnell, Louie del Carmen, Leighton Hickman, Sam Nielson)
[Via Dave Gibbons on Twitter @davegibbons90]


Link: http://theartcenter.blogspot.com
Character Design blog
Portfolio Review blog
Related Lines and Colors posts:
Florian Satzinger
Rad Sechrist

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Digital Painting,Tools and Techniques   |   9 Comments »


Thursday, March 24, 2011
Hi-res images on Rijksmuseum website

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


One thing I can never seem to get enough of is high resolution images of great art, and it seems like more and more are cropping up each day — one of the little gifts bestowed upon us by the globe spanning lattice of zooming bits we affectionately call the web.
Peacay, author of the amazing blog, BibliOdyssey (see my posts here and here), was kind enough to point out recently that the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, one of the world’s great museums, is now posting high resolution images of almost all of the works featured in their online collections. This practice extends right down to the posters and prints in their shop.
While not as stunningly high-resolution as the images on the Google Art Project (my post here), these can be viewed whole more easily and they go way beyond the selection offered there.
You can search the collections, or, as I prefer to do, browse through their lists of artists alphabetically; find someone you’re interested in, say, Vermeer (grin), and see a selection of the works available for viewing online. 
Click on a thumbnail image to access the detail page for a given work, for example, The Little Street, and click on the plus sign or link for “Extra large view of the image” below the preview image to see the larger version (images above, top, with detail crop below it). 
Some enlargements are higher in resolution and have more detail than others, but all I’ve encountered have been large enough to be worthwhile.
The collection includes artists who are quite famous, like Rembrandt (images above, 3rd and 4th down), a little less famous,  like Pieter de Hooch (above, 7th and 8th down), and lesser known but wonderful artists like still life painter Floris van Dijck (above, 5th and 6th down).
The museum’s online collection also contains gems you might not expect, like one of Van Gogh’s beautifully textural ink drawings, or a stunning Monet.
It’s also worth coming back through the front of the site and exploring that way, though I find the artist listings the most rewarding in terms of high resolution images. You could spend a lot of rewarding time here just checking out artists with whom you’re not familiar.
If your taste for great northern European art (and others) is anything like mine, I’ll issue my standard Major Time Sink Warning.
[Thanks also to Valentino Radman and Lok Jansen for mentions of high res images at the Rijksmuseum.]


Link: www.rijksmuseum.nl
Lists of artistsShop
Some relevant posts:
Essential Vermeer
Rembrandt at 400
Pieter de Hooch
Van Gogh's drawings
Monet at the Grand Palais

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Museums,Online Museums   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, March 23, 2011
Shy the Sun (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


Back in 2006 I noticed the delightfully idiosyncratic work of a South African artist and illustrator named Ree Treweek (images above, top). 
In the time since, I have followed with fascination as Treweek and her partners Jannes Hendrikz and Marcus Smit, collectively known as The Blackheart Gang, produced a strikingly original and truly strange animation titled The Tale of How (above, 2nd down), which brought them to international attention, and leveraged that notice into a successful production company for animated commercial spots called Shy the Sun.
Shy the Sun produced a stunningly bizarre commercial called Sea Orchestra (above, 3rd down) for United Airlines (which was experimenting with exceptionally creative ad spots, like Jamie Caliri’s Dragon). 
After that, I found a commercial not shown here in the U.S. that put their eccentric talents in service of selling Bakers Precious Biscuits (above, 4th down). 
It was in the latter ad that I think they added to their techniques of combining hand drawings with computer coloring and compositing an additional animation style incorporating miniature models and sets. This approach has been very successful for them and they have utilized both approaches, as well as traditional CGI, in a series of terrific spots and promotions, some well known, others more obscure.
If you’ve ever wondered, as I did initially, who created the psychedelic cat food commercial, Friskies Adventureland (above, 5th down), it was Shy the Sun. 
They applied their miniature set skills to ads for the South African subscription TV service Mnet in Ladybug and Firefly (above, 3rd from bottom). More traditional CGI seems to have been the choice for the darker ads for Electronic Arts’ game Alice: Madness Returns.
Treweek has been art director on most of the projects and co-director on some. She also contributed character design to the bizarre creatures seen at the end of Pete Candeland and Passion Pictures’ wild promo for Harmonix “The Beatles Rock Band” (above, 2nd from bottom). 
My slightly blurry screen captures don’t begin to tell you what these animations look like in motion, particularly The Tale of How and Sea Orchestra.
There are now also videos available on The Making of The Tale of How, The Making of Sea Orchestra (above, bottom) and The Making of Bakers.
I’m looking forward to whatever projects they take on, as their work continues to be imaginative and original.
Now, if only someone would give them a big pile of money to do a feature length animation…


Link: Shy the Sun
Shy the Sun: Work (videos)
Shy the Sun videos on Vimeo
The Blackheart Gang
My previous posts:
Ree Treweek
Ree Treweek update
The Tale of How
The Tale of How book
Shy the Sun
Shy the Sun: Bakers Animation

Posted in:  Amusements,Animation,Illustration   |   3 Comments »


Tuesday, March 22, 2011
David Gray

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:32 am 
 


David Gray paints elegant, refined still life paintings and beautifully realized portraits in the classical realist tradition.
In both his portraits and still life paintings, he evokes a feeling of stillness and contemplation, though in the portraits that feeling is often pierced by the quiet but intense aliveness projected by his subjects.
Similarly, Gray works with muted, limited palettes that are often punctuated by a single intense color. That kind of duality, in color, in emotional tone, in light and dark, and in the compositional contrasts of form and negative space that define his compositions, seems to pervade his work.
Many of his portraits are part of a series in which he explores a fascination with head wraps, and the contrasts of folded cloth against smooth skin. Though I was immediately drawn to a portrait of his daughter that seems very Vermeer-like, echoing the pose and colors from Girl With a Pearl Earring (images above, second down), Gray states that Vermeer was not in his mind when he composed and painted the piece; and that he takes his inspiration for figure and portrait painting most prominently from Jean-Auguste Dominique Ingres.
Gray was a finalist in the Figurative Category in the ARC 2009-2010 Salon (larger image here),  and was an invited artist in the 2010 American Art Invitational.
David Gray is the subject of a featured article in the March 2011 issue of Southwest Art magazine. The online version of the article, which also includes a gallery of Gray’s work, can be read here.


Link: www.davidgrayart.com
Tone Poems, article on Southwest Art
ARC 2009-2010 Salon (larger image here)
American Art Invitational
Eisenhauer Gallery
Scottsdale Fine Art Gallery
Sage Creek Gallery

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Sunday, March 20, 2011
Manabu Ikeda

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:01 pm 
 


Though I doubt they were intended to be so, the striking works of Japanese artist Manabu Ikeda, seen at this juncture, can seem chillingly prophetic. 
The structures, shapes and waves of objects in his work are portrayed as enormous in scale, as revealed by the astonishingly complex textural elements of countless smaller items of which they are composed.
His works are large and created in pen ink and acrylic on paper mounted on board. The level of detail is striking, even though it is just hinted at in the images available on the web. 
Ikeda was born in Saga and is now based in Tokyo. He studied at the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music.
He is represented by the Mizuma Art Gallery, which has a selection of his work online. He doesn’t seem to have a dedicated web presence of his own (or else I don’t know how to find it as a Japanese language website).
The largest images I’ve been able to find are on Art Inconnu (click for larger versions). I’ve listed some articles and other resources below.
Ikeda is represented in the group exhibition now at the Japan Society in New York,  Bye Bye Kitty!!! Between Heaven and Hell in Contemporary Japanese Art, which runs until June 12, 2011. 
[Via Art Daily]


Link: Manabu Ikeda on Mizuma Art Gallery
Art Inconnu
Bye Bye Kitty!!!, Japan Society, NYC to 6/12/11
Escape Into Life
Article on Tokyo Art Beat, also here

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






