Andrew’s Recent Keepers | Active Insite



Active Insite





 



REX RYAN: Don’t Wear Your Cowboys Gear To MetLife StadiumReady to breakout: Players poised for a big season in 2011The Journal Gazette, 600 W. Main St., Fort Wayne INKanrocksas features Muse, Texas-based artist The Black AngelsThe 15 Most Unforgettable Songs By Fueled By Ramen ArtistsNadal, Murray book semis spot at US OpenCard Game Review: Monster Mash UpBOT’s Chatumongol supports wealth fundActress and Model Brooklyn Decker Visits the ‘Just Jared Studio Presented by… — NEW YORK, Aug. 31, 2011 /PRNewswire/ –Injured Veterans to Cycle 540 Miles on the Ride 2 Recovery 9.11 Challenge in Remembrance of Victims of 9.11 



 
 
 

Andrew’s Recent Keepers

 A reader sends a view worth revisiting: My husband and I both follow your blog and love playing the VFYW contest, keeping a tally of each of our correct answers for our own competition (I believe I'm winning and may be entitled to bonus points for having my photo of St. Barts selected for the contest, even if you did label it the easiest contest yet...) A few weeks ago, my husband called me over to the computer to show me a VFYW you had posted from a reader and asked if I recognized it. I recognized it instantly and we agreed that it was definitely taken in the same neighborhood as, and probably a street or two behind, a house my family rents every summer in Sandwich, MA. Last week we were back at that house, and as I sat out on the back deck I decided to pull up the VFYW photo from July 3 and was pretty surprised to realize it wasn't just taken in our neighborhood; it was taken from our house! There are train tracks that run past those large tanks and whenever the train whistle blows my nephews run upstairs, into the bathroom, and look out the window to watch the train go by. I have spent a lot of time lifting small boys (who aren't so small anymore) up to look out that bathroom window, which is why the view was so familiar to me. This is the view from that bathroom window. I just wish this had been a contest photo! I would have had a story to go along with my submission and could have won the book before my husband! Thanks for the bit of extra fun you added to our summer vacation!
    

 

Do you have any comments or concerns? Contact us!Be sure to read our DMCA Policy









				© 2011 
					Active Insite				

















