Clarewood Apartments



News FeedComments





Home
Living at Clarewood Apts
Your Team at Clarewood Apts
Gallery











Apartment Living

Around Town

Food

Go Green






























3 Ways to Help Victi...
Check out these easy ways to help victims of the...




Spotlight on the Tex...
Next year the Texas State Bobcats will be joining...




Some Simple Ways to ...
Follow these simple tips to help homeless pets...




Five Tips to Save Mo...
Save money every day by following these simple...




Prepare and Save dur...
 
Save a few dollars by waiting to shop on Sales...









Community Blog




3 Ways to Help Victims of the Central Texas Wildfire

Posted on September 8, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








Residents of San Marcos know of the danger posed by the wildfires tearing across much of Central Texas. With a few wildfires nearby, residents of San Marcos are well aware of the danger posed by this unpredictable natural phenomenon. Firefighters have recently reported that the fires are nearly contained, but families as well as the men and women fighting... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, FeaturedTags: Apartment living at Clarewood, Charity activities in San Marcos TX, San Marcos Texas News, Volunteer in San Marcos TX




Hiking Locations around San Marcos

Posted on September 6, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








One of the key factors to living a long and productive life is to remain physically active. Taking the time to go to the gym, or spend time outdoors, will help relieve stress, lower free radicals, maintain weight and boost your metabolism. An easy way to become active is to go on a hike over the weekend. Hiking is an easy activity that many people can do... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, Health & FitnessTags: family friendly events in San Marcos, Health and Fitness in San Marcos TX, Outdoor activities in San Marcos TX




Learn how to cook in-season Vegetables at ‘Flavors of Autumn’

Posted on September 1, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








It might be hard to believe, but the summer is almost over. The heat wave and drought that have gripped much of Texas is nearly complete, and the cool breezes of fall are on the way. Along with the cooler weather, crops will begin to be harvested at farms around Texas and across the nation. Flavors of Autumn is a nifty free class being offered by the Central... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Around Town, FoodTags: Apartment living at Clarewood, Dining in San Marcos, events in San Marcos Texas, events near San Marcos Texas, Free events in San Marcos TX




Spotlight on the Texas State Bobcats

Posted on August 29, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








Are you ready for some football? As the first day of college football comes ever closer, many football fans around the nation are gearing up for another exciting season. Texas is one area in the country known for football and the many fans around the state are just as excited for the return of the collegiate season. Residents of San Marcos can be reassured... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Around Town, FeaturedTags: events in San Marcos Texas, Sports in San Marcos TX, Texas State University in San Marcos TX




Internship opportunities in San Marcos

Posted on August 24, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








Prior to finding a stable job, previous experience is necessary to develop job skills as well as strengthen your resume and overall abilities in the workplace. Heading straight into the work force out of college or high school can be a sobering experience for those that have never interned or worked prior to graduating. Mayor Daniel Guerrero of San Marcos... [Read more...]
Filed under Around TownTags: events in San Marcos Texas, events near San Marcos Texas, San Marcos Texas News




Some Simple Ways to Help Homeless Pets

Posted on August 22, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








The economic downturn that struck the global economy has had adverse effects on many parts of society. Due to the stress and unease about finances, many families had to make the tough decision of abandoning their dogs and cats. This influx in families disposing of their pets has caused pet homelessness to soar in Central Texas and many areas around the nation.... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Around Town, FeaturedTags: Charity activities in San Marcos TX, events in San Marcos Texas, news near Clarewood Apartments, Non profit organizations in San Marcos TX




Five Tips to Save Money Daily

Posted on August 15, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








The economic downturn that ripped across the financial market has caused many people to rethink the way they save money. Due to the rocky economic climate, many families have buckled down on their finances to ensure that their household can afford enjoyable activities such as vacations and events around town. One way to save money is by augmenting your... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, FeaturedTags: Apartment living at Clarewood, Deals and Sales in San Marcos TX, Shopping in San Marcos TX




Prepare and Save during ‘Sales Tax Holiday’

Posted on August 12, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet






 



With the stock market in constant fluctuation and many people unsure about the rocky economy, families across the nation have begun to shop smart and get a handle on their finances. One easy way to keep you expenditures lower is by buying school supplies and clothes during Texas' Sales Tax Holiday.

Sales Tax Holiday was designed and approved by the... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Around Town, FeaturedTags: Deals and Sales in San Marcos TX, events near Clarewood Apartments, Shopping in San Marcos TX




5k Races coming to San Marcos

Posted on August 10, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








The summer time has been hot, dry and longer than usual but it is about to end in a few months. One of the great aspects of the upcoming fall is the temperature will fall and outdoor activities will become easier. 5k and 10k races are great ways to enjoy the temperate fall weather. Below are a few races scheduled in San Marcos on September and October.

Country... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, Health & FitnessTags: events in San Marcos Texas, Health and Fitness in San Marcos TX




Spotlight On: Three Dudes Winery

Posted on August 7, 2011 By Rashun (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








There aren't a lot of things that the state of Texas can't do and that definitely includes wine. While this region of the country isn't historically known for its vineyards, it doesn't mean good wine can't come out of it. Just ask Three Dudes (and a dog).

Three Dudes Winery located right here in San Marcos is the brainchild of who else, but three dudes--Terry... [Read more...]
Filed under Around TownTags: texas wineries, wineries in san marcos, wineries near clarewood

Next Page »







WE’RE EVERYWHERE YOU ARE, CONNECT WITH US!
Enter your email address:








YOU LIKE US, YOU REEEALLY LIKE US!


Recent Comments
No comments.

 



Event Calendar


« Aug





Oct »


September 2011

M
T
W
T
F
S
S


 1234
567891011
12131415161718
19202122232425
2627282930EC




 Recent Posts

3 Ways to Help Victims of the Central Texas Wildfire
Hiking Locations around San Marcos
Learn how to cook in-season Vegetables at ‘Flavors of Autumn’
Spotlight on the Texas State Bobcats
Internship opportunities in San Marcos


Login

Username: 
Password: 
 Remember me













Categories

Apartment Living

Around Town

Featured

Food

Go Green

Health & Fitness

Uncategorized




Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011






















Copyright © 2011 · All Rights Reserved · Powered by WordPress and NCI · Privacy Policy  · User Agreement · Fair Housing · Log in













