
  AgriLife Extension offers wildfire recovery advice


AgriLIFEorg


AgriLIFE Research


Units
Resources
Communications
Employees
About
Careers



AgriLIFE Extension Service


Programs
Volunteer
Communications
Employees
About
Careers



College of Agriculture and Life Sciences


About
Academics
Contact
Careers
Future Students
Current Students
Former Students



Texas Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory
Texas Forest Service


About TVMDL
TVMDL Services
TVMDL News
About Texas Forest Service
Texas Forest Service News




Search







Topics
Locations
















 


Category

4-H & Youth

Business

Personal Finance



Environment

Composting

Conservation

Forestry

Land

Renewable energy

Water

Wildlife



Farm & Ranch

Cotton

Crop and weather report

Equipment

Fruit and nut crops, grapes

General

Grain crops

Irrigation

Livestock, poultry and horses

Nursery/Landscape crops

Pests, weeds

Rangeland, pastures, hay and forage

Small acreages

Vegetable crops



Lawn & Garden

Flowers

Grass

Pests

Vegetables

Weeds



Life & Health

Food

Human wellness

Nutrition



People

AgriLife Personnel

Stakeholders



Regional

Central

Coastal Bend

East

Far West

North

Panhandle

Rolling Plains

South

South Plains

Southeast

Southwest

West Central



Science & Tech

World Ag


 


We’re Social

Twitter 
Facebook 



 Photo Gallery

 
 


AgriLife Extension offers wildfire recovery advice
Homeowners can find information on two websites

September 7, 2011 By: Kay Ledbetter   COLLEGE STATION – As hundreds of homes have been completely destroyed in recent wildfires and many more sustained smoke damage, Texas AgriLife Extension Service is trying to help homeowners address “What next?”
Connie Wasson, Smith County assistant fire marshal, talks with Bill Dowmont, local resident of the Jacksonville Heights district about the local wildfire. The fire started from a outdoor grill, and ran so hot and fast that people were lucky to get out with their lives, according to Wasson. "With the winds like they were -- 30 mph or better -- no one had time to get out with anything but their lives. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Robert Burns)
Many homes have been burned to the ground in the recent outbreak of wildfires in Central and East Texas. This home burned in the Jackson Heights fire. (Texas AgriLife Extension Service photo by Robert Burns)
AgriLife Extension provides Texans and others with free, objective, research-based information to help with emergency and disaster preparation and recovery, according to Dr. Joyce Cavanagh, AgriLife Extension family economics specialist in College Station. The information is available through two websites and through agency personnel in county offices throughout the state.
The Texas Extension Disaster Education Network, or Texas EDEN, at http://texashelp.tamu.edu contains information and materials relating to specific disasters, such as the recent wildfires and information on disaster preparation and recovery.The AgriLife Bookstore website at http://agrilifebookstore.org contains a variety of emergency and disaster-related topics, including general preparedness, first aid, home, property and financial recovery.
Replacing Personal Documents After a Disaster and How to Remove Smoke Smell from a Home are examples of the links and information that can be found on the site.
Most materials can be downloaded and printed free of charge, and several are also available in Spanish.
Cavanagh said a number of safety issues also arise when returning to a home or business after a disaster, including possible structural damage, damage to electrical wires or gas lines, and the risk of contaminated water.
“After surviving a disaster, people should also be aware of the new dangers that crop up and take the necessary safety measures to ensure they survive the recovery phase too,” she said.
“As people return to their homes, their primary concern should be for their own safety and that of other family members,” Cavanagh said. “Listen to the authorities in the affected area and do not return home until they say it’s safe to do so.”
Once it’s safe to return, she said, bring supplies and wear clothing that will help sustain personal health and safety. She suggested taking a multi-use fire extinguisher, plenty of bottled water and a first-aid kit, and wear sturdy shoes with thick, preferably non-rubber soles, a long-sleeved shirt, long pants and work gloves.
“Those with property damage need to contact their insurance company, take photos of the damage and begin an inventory of damaged personal possessions for insurance purposes, then they can make temporary repairs to prevent further damage,” Cavanagh said. “Retain receipts for any supplies purchased for temporary repairs, as some or all of these costs may be reimbursed by homeowners insurance.”
She added that during the recovery process, it’s also a good idea to keep a ‘communications log’ of any conversations with the insurance company, local authorities and contractors or others providing home repairs in order to keep track of expected repair dates, estimated costs and specific actions to be taken or work to be done.
Cavanagh said the Texas Department of Insurance has offered guidance regarding insurance claims to Texans affected by wildfires. That information can be found at: http://www.tdi.texas.gov/news/2011/news201130.html.
-30-

Contacts
Co-writer: Paul Schattenberg, 210-467-6575, paschattenberg@ag.tamu.edu
Dr. Joyce Cavanagh, 979-845-3859, jacavanagh@ag.tamu.edu

  Life & Health Top Story  disaster recovery, homeowners, insurance, wildfire  
 

« Previous
Next »

 

Related Posts

AgriLife Extension to host canning, food preservation courses in San Antonio  
                       ~  Food, Life & Health, Nutrition 
 
   1 September, at 14 : 39 PM
 

AgriLife Extension makes Texans 'aware so they may prepare' for emergencies, disasters  
                       ~  Human wellness, Life & Health 
 
   30 August, at 09 : 55 AM
 

This Labor Day weekend, work toward outdoor cooking safety  
                       ~  Food, Human wellness, Life & Health 
 
   23 August, at 15 : 53 PM
 

Texas crop, weather for Sept. 7, 2011  
                       ~  Audio, Crop and weather report, Farm & Ranch, Multimedia, Top Story 
 
   7 September, at 15 : 04 PM
 

Texas citrus harvest expected to be down from last year  
                       ~  Fruit and nut crops, grapes, Regional, South, Top Story 
 
   5 September, at 10 : 07 AM
 






 

 Post Your Comments 

Click here to cancel reply.


Name *

Mail *

Website









 

 
 


Archive September 2011 (16)
August 2011 (69)
July 2011 (67)
 
AgriLife News (11/07-8/10)
AgriLife News (10/07-older)

 

Resources

Audio Clips
Photos
Usage Statement
Videos




About The Media Relations group brings international, national and statewide recognition to the accomplishments and activities of Texas A&M AgriLife. Learn more...
 

Contact Kathleen Phillips
Media Relations Manager
Texas A&M AgriLife Communications
(979) 845-2872
ka-phillips@tamu.edu
Full Media Relations Team
 











Texas A&M AgriLife

Jack K. Williams Administration Building | 
					  2142 TAMU | 
					  College Station, 
					  TX
77843
 | 
					Map
					Phone: (979) 845-4747 | 
					Fax: (979) 845-4242 | 
					Email: today@agrilife.org


Web Site Maintenance:AgriLife Communications


			©   All rights reserved
			
Compact with Texans
Privacy and Security
Accessibility Policy
State Link Policy
Statewide Search
Equal Opportunity for Educational Programs Statement
Veterans Benefits
Military Families
Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline
Texas Homeland Security
Open Records/Public Information
Protected by Akismet










