Chartis Enhances Fiduciary Liability Coverage for Organized Labor | The Corkill Insurance Blog



The Corkill Insurance Blog
Commercial Insurance Related News


Blog Home
About Corkill Insurance
Corkill Insurance Reviews
Contact Us




 
Chartis Enhances Fiduciary Liability Coverage for Organized Labor
Source: Insurance Journal » News
September 7, 2011

Chartis has made two enhancements, developed by its Executive Liability division, to its fiduciary liability insurance solutions for organized labor.  The first is the fiduciary liability insurance edge endorsement, which when added to the Chartis insurers’ fiduciary liability policy for …

« Industry Employment Down in July; P&C Carriers Shed 2,200 Jobs
Texas Wildfire Losses Could Surpass $100M »



        
						Category: Quick Insurance News | RSS 2.0
													Responses are currently closed, but you can trackback from your own site.

						            

No Comments


Comments are closed.




Who are the People at Corkill Insurance?
Corkill Insurance specializes in providing individuals and businesses with a broad array of innovative and customized insurance, benefits and investment products, plus value-added services that focus on serving each customer’s unique needs.  
  Recent Corkill Insurance Blogs

Michigan Begins Debate Over Personal Injury Auto Insurance Benefits
Willis’ Exec Sees Possible ‘Historic Change’ in Reinsurance Market
Willis’ Exec Sees Possible ‘Historic Change’ in Reinsurance Market
Best, S&P Positive on Reinsurers’ Capital
Best, S&P Positive on Reinsurers’ Capital
Cantlay to Join AIG-Backed Lloyd’s Syndicate, Ascot, as Executive Director

 Corkill Insurance Reviews
[Rating: 5 stars] Mitch Backes, Agnes Olech and Becky Spees of Corkill Insurance Agency, Inc. receive compliments for excellent customer service May 12, 2011Review by: William Fox (Posen, IL) Corkill Team Member: Mitch Backes  Department: Sales  Mitch,   I just wanted to take a second and acknowledge you and your team.  The construction industry seems to be more like a fire department in that everything seems to be a fire drill.  The ability of Agnes, Becky, and yourself to respond to our last min demands does n […][Rating: 5 stars] Corkill Insurance Agency, Inc., Brian Mock of Corkill Insurance Agency, Sue Marto of Corkill Insurance Agency, Corkill Insurance provides exemplary service April 22, 2011Review by: Randy Ferrari (Lombard, IL) Corkill Team Member: Brian Mock  Department: Sales  Several years ago I was directed by the owners of L.J. Shaw to review our health insurance program.  We are a small firm and have had a strong commitment to provide the best service to our clients and loyalty to our employees since 1932.  The length of our relationship […][Rating: 5 stars] Rich Moss, Mitch Backes, Dave Broz and Corkill Insurance Agency, Inc. Provide Excellent Service April 22, 2011Review by: Chief Fred Kruger (Lincolnshire, IL) Corkill Team Member: Rich Moss  Department: Sales  The Lincolnshire-Riverwoods Fire Protection District has purchased health insurance through the Corkill Insurance Agency for the last four or five years  In 2009 we added our workers compensation insurance and in 2010 our business and liability insurance. .  Th […][Rating: 5 stars] Carolyn Hanna of Corkill Insurance Elk Grove Village Illinois April 15, 2011Review by: Annamarie Bensfield (Hinsdale, IL) Corkill Team Member: Carolyn Hanna  Department: Sales  Carolyn has always been there for me and my family whenever we needed advice, coverage or help with our homeowners and car insurance.  She is creative in her thinking and always has a solution for every concern.  I would and have recommended her to anyone who […][Rating: 5 stars] Carolyn Hanna of Corkill Insurance Agency, Inc. provides insurance solutions for her clients April 15, 2011Review by: Kurt Hagemann (Saint Charles, IL) Corkill Team Member: Carolyn Hanna  Department: Sales  Carolyn works very hard to find the insurance that fits the individual needs of her client.  She did a great job finding us the best coverage at the most competitive rates. Kurt Hagemann, LPL Financial Our reply:Kurt thank you for your comments.  We agree that […][Rating: 5 stars] Corkill Insurance and Becky Spees Provide Exceptional Service April 14, 2011Review by: Phil Cusumano (Carol Stream, IL) Corkill Team Member: Rebecca Spees  Department: Service  Paul, Hope all is well, sometimes you need to let people know that they are very important to your businessso I want you to know Becky turned a cert around for us in less than 10 minutes from the time I got the call, she received the email and sent it off. G […][Rating: 5 stars] Corkill Insurance and Rich Moss of Elk Grove Village Illinois April 8, 2011Review by: Annette Miller (Elgin, IL) Corkill Team Member: Rich Moss  Department: Service  Corkill Insurance:  a great company to work with.  Whether it be a question or issue that needs to be resolved, we get a quick resolution.  We are very satisfied with their service. Annette Miller, Elgin Township   Our reply:Annette, thank you for taking the time to ex […][Rating: 5 stars] Jamie Mock and Corkill Insurance of Elk Grove Village, Illinois receives excellant feedback November 3, 2010Review by: Dawn Novak (Cedar Lake, IN) Corkill Team Member: Jamie Mock  Department: Service  I love Jamie Mock!  She makes my job as human resources administrator EASY!  She is my go to person with any medical and dental issues, questions or concerns.  Keep up the great service! Our reply:Thank you Dawn for your positive feedback regarding Jamie Mock and Cor […][Rating: 5 stars] Corkill Insurance, Kalli Ortega gets 5 star review from client in Matteson, IL October 15, 2010Review by: Laura Evans (Matteson, IL) Corkill Team Member: Kalli Ortega  Department: Service  Our company has been using the Corkill Insurance Agency for many years.  Their team goes above and beyond to provide excellent customer service.  Kalli Ortega has been extraordinary.  When any of our employees need help with insurance she is more than happy to help. […][Rating: 5 stars] Rebecca Spees of Corkill Insurance service department  receives 5 stars from Volo, IL client October 12, 2010Review by: Alex K Mayfield (Volo, IL) Corkill Team Member: Rebecca Spees  Department: Service  Always prompt.  Never an issue, they just get it done.  Highly recommended. Our reply:Alex, Thank you for your positive feedback regarding Corkill Insurance and our team member Becky. We pride ourselves in delivering exceptional service to all of our clients.  We l […] 
 



MagZine theme designed by pupung budi purnama


        		© 2011 The Corkill Insurance Blog all rights reserved
        	




