lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2011 » February






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Monday, February 28, 2011
Colley Whisson

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:30 pm 
 


Australian painter Colley Whisson has been painting from the age of  20, encouraged by his father, Eric Whisson, also an artist.
Colley Whisson uses a bright palette and an appealingly textural rendering technique, in which forms are defined by bold strokes of heavy paint, laid on with very visible evidence of the brush. 
He utilizes both crisply delineated edges and contrastingly blurred passages. You can see this better when his work is reproduced larger than the small images I’ve displayed above. I’ve included a detail crop of the last image at bottom.
Whisson has a fascination for boldly defined forms, both in their geometry and in the value and color contrasts in which he delights. I particularly enjoy his room interiors, in which the geometry of forms and his economy of rendering come to the fore.
Whisson’s art has been featured in magazines like International Artist and Australian Artist. He is the author of the instructional book Impressionist Painting Made Easy.
Whisson conducts workshops in Australia and the U.S. There is a video here of one of his workshops at the Tuscon Art Academy, and painter Ed Turpening gives a description of his experiences with a Whisson workshop, including a video demo and a description of Whisson’s approach and materials.


Link: www.colleywhisson.com
David Hart Galleries
Rive Gauche Galleries
David Summer Gallery
Neo Gallery
Scala Editions
Jenny Pihan Fine Art
Chroma Online

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Saturday, February 26, 2011
Massimo Carnevale

Posted by Charley Parker at 4:32 pm 
 


Italian comics artist and illustrator Massimo Carnevale sent me two links back in 2006, suggesting that I check out his blog and an entry on his work in the Italian edition of Wikipedia. 
Unfortunately, as often happens with my long and ungainly list of potential topics for Lines and Colors, his suggestion fell between the cracks, and the blog he listed is no longer extant. 
Sometime last year, I noticed a Zelda Devon mention of Carnevale (on Twitter, I think), checked out his work, was very impressed and bookmarked it for future use, but again let it pass beneath the waves.
Finally, I’ve recently noticed several mentions, on Daring Fireball, Drawn and elsewhere, of his new blog,  sketchessnatched, in which he is posting delightful digital paintings and drawings inspired by movies (images above, bottom two in color, plus black and white).
Massimo resides in italy, where he has been contributing to Italian comics since 1987, in many cases in collaboration with screenwriter Lorenzo Bartoli. In 2003, he started to do work for the American comics company DC. They hired Caranavele to do painted covers, which has become his speciality. 
Carnavale worked on covers for the Vertigo imprint titles, Y: The Last Man and Northlanders (image above, top), and has also done covers for Dark Horse Comics’ Terminator 2029 (above, second down).
The links in the paragraph above are to listings on Comic Vine, which also lists Carnevale’s work on Del Ray Comics’ The Talisman: The Road of Trials. The thumbnails in each listing are linked to a detail page with a larger view of the cover. There is also a text bibliography of his work for US publishers on Comic Book DB.
There is a book of Carnevale’s work, Icon Artbook Vol 03 Massimo Carnavale Italian, available form Forbidden Planet (also listed in Italian here).
Outside of his new movie scene inspired blog, I can’t find a dedicated web presence for Carnevale. The best other source I’ve found for his work is a section on Comic Art Community. I’ve listed the few other resources I can find below.
[Addendum: Luigi of House of Mystery was kind enough to write (see this post's comments) and add to the list of resources for Carnevale's work:
Covers of the monthly series John Doe, covers of Don Zauker and Garrett  ]


Link: http://sketchesnatched.blogspot.com
Massimo Carnevale on Comic Art Community
Lists of covers, with images, on Comic Vine
Icon Artbook Vol 03 Massimo Carnavale Italian
House of Mystery
Bio on Lambiek.net
Interview (first half of article) on Newsarama
Article on DanDare.com
Bio on Wikipedia, IT (Google Translate EN)

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   7 Comments »


Friday, February 25, 2011
100 Faces (Karin Jurick)

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:18 pm 
 


Karin Jurick continues to impress me, not just with her wonderfully fresh, bold and immediate painting style, but with her relentless pursuit of her art. 
Feeling stymied in her progress as a painter last summer, she took on a personal challenge to paint 100 faces, choosing as her subjects mugshots from all over the country.
The result, from face number 1 (images above, top), which she started on August 7th, to number 100 (above, bottom), which she finished on February 1st, is an amazing array of features and face shapes, skin tones and hair colors, and of course, expressions. Some reflect the harsh demeanor one might expect from mugshots, others are surprisingly compassionate and sympathetic; all are painted with Jurick’s crisp, geometric, almost sculptural chunks of color.
There is a page of thumbnails of all 100 faces; each thumbnail is linked to the original blog entry Jurick posted on its completion. She also created a separate blog just for the the series, called BUST-ED, though they lack the comments that accompany the posts on her original blog, including a step through of the her process on face number 19 (image above, second from bottom). 
There is also a YouTube video that looks through the paintings as a slideshow, accompanied by oddly appropriate music, and Jurick has published the series in a book titled 100 Faces BUST-ED.
On her regular blog, A Painting Today, Jurick has continued beyond the series with a new smaller series, based on the comment of a writer who collects her work that the mugshot paintings looked like Charles Dickens characters.


Link: 100 Faces (full array)
BUST-ED blog
Video (YouTube)
100 Faces, No. 1
100 Faces, No. 100
100 Faces BUST-ED (book)
A Painting Today (Karin Jurick Blog)
My previous post on Karin Jurick (with links to others)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, February 24, 2011
Art Blocks for Ghana

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:56 pm 
 


There are numerous tragic situations around the globe today, some sudden and unexpected, some ongoing; you might think of them as acute and chronic.
Art Blocks for Ghana addresses one of the latter, and though it may seem small in scope, it is with small direct actions that we most effectively make changes in the world.
The press release describes the event more succinctly that I could:
The Picture Book Project Foundation (PBP) presents Art Blocks for Ghana — an exhibit and charity art auction to benefit orphaned children in Ghana, West Africa. Sponsored by Digital Domain Media Group and AOL Artists, Art Blocks for Ghana features original works created by top artists within the animation and illustration community.  The collection will be auctioned online beginning March 12, 2011. Additionally, PBP will host fundraising events in New York and Los Angeles where guests can preview the collection before it goes up for auction and meet some of the artists involved.    
PBP created the Art Blocks for Ghana project to raise money to pay for the boarding school costs of 13 orphaned children who were formerly cared for by the now defunct Save the Widows and Orphans Development Center in Ho, Ghana. Contributing artists are employed by studios such as DreamWorks Animation, Pixar Animation Studios, Blue Sky Studios, Marathon Media, ILM, Disney, Sony, Digital Domain, AOL Artists, as well as award-winning illustrators.  A variety of artists have contributed from Canada, France, Sweden, Australia, Germany and The United Kingdom.
PBP provided the artists with wood panels to serve as the canvas for their creations. Each panel represents the “building blocks” every child needs to build a bright future – food, shelter, education and opportunity. All artwork was created around the common theme, “Home.” With children who do not have a single place to call home in mind, the artists explored the concept of the word and its many different meanings, such as comfort, life, nature, shelter, friends, love.
A wide variety of mediums – from oils, acrylic and gouache to mixed media, collage, screen print and sculpture – were used to create the pieces. Contributing artists and PBP are documenting the development process on a dedicated Art Block Process blog. 
Preview events will take place:
New York:
Special Event:  February 26th 2011 at The New Art Center 580 8th Ave. 5th floor, New York NY 10018; purchase tickets: http://artblocksnyc.eventbrite.com
Los Angeles:
Display:  March 9th – March 14th 2011 at Gallery Nucleus 210 East Main Street, Alhambra CA 91801
Special Event:  March 12th 2011 at Gallery Nucleus; purchase tickets: http://artblocksla.eventbrite.com

In addition to the Art Block Process blog (image above, bottom), there is a blog devoted to Artist Bios. The individual listings for the pieces in the main blog also include brief descriptions and links to the artist’s websites or blogs. There is an impressively long list of participating artists in the right hand column.
The Art Blocks for Ghana online auction will be held March 12th, 2011.
(Images above: Armand Baltazar, Kevin Turcotte, Kevin Hawkes, Tom Wichitsripornkul, David Leonard, Tohru Patrick Awa, Katy Hargrove, Ron DeFelice, Steve Purcell, Steve Purcell process photo)


Link: Art Blocks for Ghana
Art Block Process blog
Artist Bios blog
Art Blocks for Ghana online auction, March 12th, 2011

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, February 23, 2011
Terry Miura (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:54 pm 
 


Since I wrote about California painter Terry Miura in 2007, his website has been redone and updated with new paintings, divided into sections for Landscapes, Cityscapes, Figurative and Small Works.
Miura’s softly geometric, atmospheric paintings emphasize color harmony and composition and have an emotional resonance for those brief, almost unnoticed moments when we are struck by time of day, slanting light, passing shadows and hints of change.
While light plays an important part of many of his compositions, particularly the cityscapes, it is more often the role of atmosphere that defines the work, not just in the sense of muted colors and decreased value contrasts, but in a palpable feeling of being surrounded by air of a certain kind, of warm sun or cool mist.
Miura teaches figure painting at the School of Light and Color in Fair Oaks, CA, as well as teaching occasional workshops. He has recently published a painting demo booklet from his plein air painting workshops.
Miura also maintains a blog, Studio Notes. A recent post mentions that one of his paintings has just been acquired as part of the permanent collection of the Crocker Art Museum.


Link: www.terrymiura.com
Studio Notes (blog)
My previous post on Terry Miura

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »



Mukesh Singh

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:57 am 
 


Mukesh Singh moved from working with a gaming company as a 3D artist and concept designer into drawing comics, working for the then new Virgin Comics publishing house.
He moved from his base in Mumbai to new quarters in Bangalore and took on comics full time. He has worked on titles like Devi, Guy Ritchie’s Gamekeeper and Jenna Jameson’s Shadow, but first came to my attention with I saw his striking work for Grant Morrison’s 18 Days (images above), an adaptation of the ancient Sanskrit epic Mahabharata.
The latter title isn’t comics format but an illustrated book with story and art on facing pages, apparently from scripts Morrison has been working on for an animated version of the story. There is a great preview of some of the images, and the best example I can find of Singh’s work, on Parka Blogs.
Beyond that, I can find little information about Singh; he doesn’t appear to currently have a web site or blog. What little I know about his background comes from an interview conducted by Saurav Mohapatra on Comics Waiting Room.
[Addendum: Siju Thomas (see this post's comments) was kind enough to let us know that Mukesh currently lives and works in Mumbai, is working with Liquid comics and is on LinkedIn.]


Link: Grant Morrison's 18 Days on Parka Blogs
Grant Morrison's 18 Days, Amazon listing
Interview on Comics Waiting Room
Art Nectar
Bleeding Cool
Interview with Grant Morrison about 18 days
Comic Vine

Posted in:  Comics,Illustration   |   10 Comments »


Monday, February 21, 2011
About Face (Chris James)

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:45 pm 
 


About Face is a short (4 minute) hand drawn animation featuring a series of nicely imaginative morphing sequences, with animals, faces, even caricatures of figures from history and pop culture, like Picasso and Dal&iacite; (above).
Written and drawn in 1977 by Chris James, with camera work by Julian Holdaway and music by Claude Jouvin, the short demonstrates that imagination, not CGI, is the necessary element for this kind of clever and amusing image dance.
[Via Cartoon Brew]


Link: About Face on Cartoon Brew
On YouTube

Posted in:  Amusements,Animation   |   2 Comments »


Sunday, February 20, 2011
Paintmap

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:11 am 
 


Like The Arts Map, that I wrote about last spring, Paintmap is a location based mapping feature based on the Google Maps API. 
In the case of The Arts Map, the application allows artists and arts related institutions to locate themselves on a global map, with a virtual pin tied to a pop-up with more detailed information for those browsing or searching.
Paintmap is focused on pinpointing the location of individual paintings, allowing the user to select a location, view thumbnails of paintings painted of or in that location and see them in more detail, along with information about the artist. It’s a nice idea, reasonably well executed in many respects, though a bit awkward in others. 
You can search for a particular location (or artist) or browse from the page of an existing location or work through thumbnails that link to more works from that location, more works by that artist, or links from an artist’s page to other artists they like. 
Pages for individual works also show show thumbnail images of photographs from the same location when available. In addition you can search by tags, like “river”, field”, etc. There is a Paintmap blog that describes some of the site’s evolving features.
You can use the main map window much like any Google Maps window, zoom and scroll around and look for points of interest in various locations, highlighted by thumbnails, or stacks of thumbnails.
Some things could be implemented batter. On the detail page for individual paintings, for example, there is a smaller map window the pinpoints the location assigned to the painting, but it seems to default to satellite view, and the most zoomed in view available; often leaving you with a zoomed in view of a nondescript piece of road until you take the trouble to zoom out and adjust the view — not as useful as it might be.
The system does encourage casual browsing, though finding artists you like is also not as easy as it might be. I get the impression that one of the intended uses is for artists to create and link to the Paintmap listings for their works from their own sites, adding a “here’s where I painted this” feature to their online galleries.
In a few minutes of browsing, I did find some artists I like, and with whom I was already familiar, for example Terry Miura (images above, bottom two panels, see my post on Terry Miura).
I assume that the ability for users get an account, sigh in and mark artists that they like, and then recommend them to others, will help in terms of sorting the wheat from the chaff. 
Both Paintmap and the Arts Map face the same “Catch-22″; in that these kinds of resources are most valuable when well-attended and well used, but need to already be popular to attract the kind of attention necessary to get large numbers of artists to participate.
So far, in both cases, adoption seems to be relatively slow, leaving the maps pretty thin in most places. It’s a promising idea, however, and I hope that Paintmap grows into its potential.
[Via Katherine Tyrrell's The Art of  the Landscape]



Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Tools and Techniques   |   1 Comment »


Friday, February 18, 2011
James Hart Dyke, artist who spied on the spies

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:46 pm 
 


Hart Dyke, James Hart Dyke, was offered a mission by Her Majesty’s Government: to go undercover with MI6, the Secret Intelligence Service, and report on the life of undercover agents in paintings and drawings.
Hart Dyke has been official artist on four royal tours with Prince Charles and has been embedded as a war artist in Iraq and Afghanistan, but was surprised by the request “go undercover” for several months,  travel with MI6 agents to places like Iraq (image above, 3rd down), visit their headquarters (above, top) and convey in paintings the day to day life of agents in the British foreign intelligence service.
The agency had decided this was a way for the public to get a better understanding of this often misunderstood part of their government.
Hart Dyke found the actual experiences of the field agents not very James Bond like, but became fascinated with the way the unexpected (and potentially dangerous) lurked beneath the ordinary. As a result many of his paintings portray ordinary scenes, in which agents wait, or look for significant events or information. 
The show of the work consists of 40 paintings, 25 drawings and a number of prints. Some of them can be seen on Hart Dyke’s site (along with his landscapes, image above, bottom; and other work) as well as in a slideshow accompanying an article about his experience on The Guardian.
Hart Dyke’s color palette ranges from rich and brilliant to softly atmospheric and almost monochromatic. All of his work, his painting particularly, carries a strong feeling of geometry, both underlying his forms and in the bold, textural chunks of color in which he applies his paint.


Link: www.jameshartdyke.com
MI6 paintings, drawings, prints
Article on The Guardian, with slideshow

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »


Thursday, February 17, 2011
Robert Fawcett: The Illustrator’s Illustrator

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:58 pm 
 


Robert Fawcett, though quite successful and in demand, was not the most popular illustrator of his time or the highest paid. He was, however, probably the most respected (and perhaps envied), by his peers.
Fawcett earned the appellation “the illustrator’s illustrator” from that admiration. Highly skilled, independently minded, and committed to quality and mastery in his work to a degree rarely encountered, Fawcett earned a place at the pinnacle of early 20th Century illustration. 
At a time when modernist faddism and stylistic meanderings in the name of popularity were strong undercurrents in the field, which was facing increasing pressures from a publishing industry that was turning to photography for more and more of its illustration needs, Fawcett remained steadfast in his ideals. Those same ideals are likely what propelled him into the field originally.
Encouraged by his father from an early age (or even “over-encouraged”, as Fawcett himself puts it, by a father who was himself a frustrated artist), Fawcett traveled back to his native England, from which his parents had emigrated to Canada when Fawcett was a teenager, to attend the well respected Slade School of Art. I don’t know if the curriculum there was strictly academic, but the school had a reputation for unstintingly rigorous training in the traditional fundamentals of art.
It was this training that formed the foundation for Fawcett’s art, which was always grounded in traditional draftsmanship. Fawcett found his original intention to be a gallery artist frustrated, in kinship with many classically trained artists who were facing an art market increasingly dominated by the anti-academic forces of modernism.  
Fawcett’s emphasis on draftsmanship, and his command of drawing skills, were the underpinning of all of his work, emphasized and extended by his mastery of value and composition. 
Throughout all of his illustrations, paintings and drawings is an underlying strength that is often not found in the work of his contemporaries, perhaps part of the source of their admiration, coupled with his insistence on doing work to his own high standards, even if it meant turning down more lucrative jobs.
Much of the kind of admiration other artists felt for Fawcett and his work is brimming from the covers of a wonderful new book, Robert Fawcett: The Illustrator’s Illustrator from Auad Publications. 
Auad is a small specialty art publisher, whose titles I have long admired and written about previously (see my posts on Frank Brangwyn, R.A.: The Way of the Cross, Franklin Booth, Alex Toth and Alex Niño).
I was delighted to receive a review copy from Manual Auad, the publisher, who has for years wanted to do this particular book.
Working from his own deeply held regard and affection for Fawcett and his work, Auad has enlisted the cooperation of David Apatoff, author of the superb blog, Illustration Art, who wrote the text.  Auad selected the images, edited and arranged the book. The reulting volume is what must now be considered the definitive work on this great American illustrator.   
That the book is a labor of love, I think, shows in every page. Sharply written, wonderfully designed and printed with great attention to production values, the book shines, a fitting tribute to an artist whose own standards were so high. 
It gives a broad overview of Fawcett’s career and is filled to overflowing (profusely illustrated, as I love to say) with over 100 of Fawcett’s beautiful color illustrations, and numerous black and white plates. Many of the images have been photographed from the original artwork.
Fawcett was one of the founding faculty of the Famous Artist School, and the introduction to the volume is by Walt Reed, our foremost authority on American illustration, who worked alongside Fawcett as a member of the faculty and speaks glowingly of Fawcett and his skills.
Fawcett was also the author of a highly regarded instructional book, The Art of Drawing, which is still in print and available from Dover Books. 
Robert Fawcett: The Illustrator’s Illustrator, though obviously enjoyable as a coffee table book of superb illustrations, might also serve as a master class in illustration, just from the power of Fawcett’s skill, aided by Auad’s selections of rare life drawings and a number of preliminary sketches. The stylistic influence Fawcett exerted on mid-20th Century illustrators (not to mention great comics artists like Alex Raymond and Al Williamson, to name just two) is obvious in the style that emerges as you move through Fawcett’s career.
Auad has made an unusual, and I think brilliant, choice in the way the work is arranged and presented. Though the initial chapters on Fawcett’s life, drawing style and approach to composition and painting are accompanied by specifically appropriate illustrations (as well as an interview with Fawcett), in the second half of the book, more or less the “gallery” section, instead of arranging the work chronologically or by subject matter, Auad has presented the work by series, like the famous series of Sherlock Holmes illustrations that cemented his reputation, his stint as the premiere illustrator for Agatha Christie’s stories as they were originally published in Colliers and a selection of his advertising work. He then has arranged the other selections by publication. These gather and highlight work for Colliers, The Saturday Evening Post, This Week Magazine and Cosmopolitan.
Apatoff nicely gives us a picture of Fawcett’s (sometimes difficult) relationship with the magazines, the demands of doing illustration for each particular publication and in the process provides a context that I think is much more instructive about the nature of Fawcett’s devotion to his work, and refusal to bend to the vagaries of popular taste, than could be provided any other way.
The Auad Publishing page has a slideshow of images from the book (accessed by clicking on the cover image) but they are too small and brief to do the book, or Fawcett’s work, justice. (The same should be said for my too-small images above.)
For more, see David Apatoff’s post on the book and on The Training of Robert Fawcett. For a good selection of Fawcett’s work, see Leif Peng’s Flickr collection, as well as his blog post with an excerpt from the book, another with an overview and some additional images, and another titled “Robert Fawcett, Abstract Artist“.  
Also see my previous post on Robert Fawcett, which includes additional resources.


Link: Robert Fawcett: The Illustrator's Illustrator from Auad Publications
My previous post on Robert Fawcett

Posted in:  Illustration   |   3 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






