Moe Lane » 2010 » October








Home
About
Liber Licentiae Moeticae
GURPS 4E Thumbnail Alternate Earths.
Webcomics I admit reading.
Filthy Lucre.  Filthy. Lucre.













Moe Lane
I am an evil giraffe. So "don't call my bluff."

















         Oct
31
         2010         


1












‘Kiss Me Deadly’


Kiss Me Deadly, Lita Ford
You know, I think that if ironic hipsters from today went back in time to 1988 to do a parody of 80s music videos, it would look pretty much like that.  Suffice it to say that I had the singer and that song all mixed up in my head.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: Kiss Me Deadly, Lita Ford 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
31
         2010         


15












Your feel-good election post of the weekend.

What a title: “Grim Democrats await huge House losses.”   Not nearly as much as we are, of course: but they’re frantically  counting up their likely losses, and forecasting fifty to seventy (which  means, obviously, that we need to increase that to seventy to ninety).   At this point, the consensus seems to be among a variety of  remaining-nameless professional Democrats that everyone in the House  within the margin of error is going to lose to the Republican nominee.   These people are on the verge of watching a large percentage of their  client list – and in many cases, friends and members of their social  circle – be thrown out of work right in the middle of one of the most  toxic employment environments in recent history.  And they’ve been  fighting it for a year and nothing worked.
Now, some of you (more of you, I suspect, than are willing to admit  it) read the paragraph above, read the article that it links to, and  then started to feel… pity.  Or empathy, because it happened to you in  2006 and 2008.  Or merely a natural desire to not kick someone when  they are down.  And those are laudable impulses to have.  But before you  act on those impulses with regard to these professional Democrats,  please remember this:

These people told their clients to say that you hate African-Americans.
These people told their clients to say that you hate Latinos.
These people told their clients to say that you hate gays.
These people told their clients to say that you hate women.
These people told their clients to say that you hate Jews.
These people told their clients to say that you hate Muslims.
These people told their clients to say that you hate the poor.
These people told their clients to say that you hate America.

Shall I continue? (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
31
         2010         


5












All hail the power of an Internet meme.

That ‘Get Betty White on SNL’ thing is paying dividends: she’s going to be in the next Men In Black flick.  Also, somebody called Nicole Scherzinger, who is apparently some sort of singer for a band that seems to extrude DRAMA from every pore.
I must be getting old: the Betty White thing is more entertaining.
Moe Lane
(Via The Other McCain)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: betty white, men in black 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
31
         2010         


1












‘Teen Paranormal Romance.’

David Thompson passes along a picture of a section header from a Barnes & Noble; I saw something similar (‘Supernatural Romance’) at a Books-a-Million yesterday when I picked up a copy of Gail Carriger’s Blameless (The Parasol Protectorate).
(pause)
Gimme a break, it’s steampunk.  Alt-history steampunk horror.  OK, OK, maybe there’s just a bit of romance novel ethos in it… but it also has clockwork assassin beetles in it, so I don’t want to hear any snickering, OK?  Anyway, this entire werewolf/vampire Byronic hero thing seems to be quite the fad.  Did the demographic that reads romance novels get bored with pirates?
And, more importantly, is there any way to suck them farther into the genre?
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: blameless, horror, romance, vampires, werewolves 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
31
         2010         


7












The McRib shows up early.


Oh yeah, baby.

Oh yeah.
Moe Lane
[UPDATE]:

Damn, but I’ve missed those.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: mcrib 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
31
         2010         


2












Organ Trail.

Old-style Oregon Trail video game, only with a zombie apocalypse theme.  You can blame ML tech god Neil Stevens for this one; I was up until 2 AM getting to safety… although the rest of my party tragically died outside of Memphis when we ran out of food.  Tragic, but exceptionally fitting for the genre.  I kept expecting the corpses to reanimate and eat me, but they never did.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: braaaaaaaaiiiiinnnnssss, everything is better with zombies, oregon trail 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
31
         2010         


2












Please watch this video.

It’s from Americans for Prosperity, and it shows some of the signs at the Stewart/Colbert thing on Saturday.

Please remember three things about these people:

Not even close to all Democrats are twerps, but every single twerp in this video is a Democrat.
Said twerps hate you, and want you to die in a fire.
If you vote on Tuesday, they’ll hate you even more.

Moe Lane
(Via Instapundit)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: americans for prosperity, smug 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
30
         2010         


--












‘Walk on the Wild Side.’


Walk On The Wild Side, Lou Reed
Have I done this one lately?  Don’t care, it’s kind of peaceful.  Kind of.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Not-politics | Tags: lou reed, walk on the wild side 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
30
         2010         


3












#rsrh Definition of ‘silly.’

No, it’s not offering political advice when you’re somebody who got shellacked 520 to 17 in the Electoral College running against a post-Watergate Richard Nixon.  No, it’s expecting anybody to take that advice.
Moe Lane
PS: Sorry, let me summarize the article:  Reagan ungood! Bush-Cheney doubleplusungood! Afghanistan scary! Elect Democrats!  This, I command!
Sorry.  It’s just that… have you ever noticed that, once Republican Presidents and Presidential candidates are done, they tend to go home and stop nagging people?  Which is something that you don’t see too much with Democratic ones: Clinton’s not so bad, but ye gods and little fishes, you’d think that McGovern, Carter, Mondale, and Gore would have taken the hint that we didn’t want them running things any more.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: george mcgovern 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
30
         2010         


2












Boxer’s Indian casino ties.

Oddly, the original story about Senator Barbara Boxer (D, CA), Boxer’s son, a regenerated Native American tribe, and a rapidly-looming San Franciscan casino seems to have disappeared from The Hill’s site, but a copy can be found here. It’s fascinating reading.
The short version: back in the 1990s, Rep Lynn Woolsey introduced legislation that would reinstate an officially defunct Native American tribe (the Miwoks), with the explicit restriction that said tribe would not be permitted to build a casino (which is a standard revenue generator for Native American tribes, thanks to various federal regulations and exemptions).  When the bill came over to the Senate’s side, however, Senator Barbara Boxer changed the legislation to both remove that restriction and to make the land owned by the Miwoks a reservation.  This was supposedly done without the knowledge of either Rep. Woolsey, or Senator Dianne Feinstein.
Then – shock and surprise! – the Miwoks decided that they wanted to generate a revenue by building a casino.  Just outside of San Francisco.   As The Sacramento Bee glumly notes, the Miwoks can get away with quite a lot along those lines because they have a reservation – including essentially ignoring state environmental laws – and they’ve been pursuing the construction of a casino ever since.  In fact, they’ve just recently finally jumped through the appropriate federal hoops – and if Jerry Brown is governor next year the tribe expects more help on the state level from him than, say, Arnold Schwarzenegger (taking over 700K in campaign contributions from tribal sources can produce that kind of expectation). (more…)
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: barbara boxer, California, carly fiorina, casinos, doug boxer, miwok 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
30
         2010         


2












#rsrh I did not vote for Barack Obama.

I note this to distinguish myself from Ann Althouse and Joe Sudbay, as both of them did.  I regretfully point this out with regards to the former, if not necessarily the latter; I’m as exasperated as she is that the President is being hypocritical when it comes to DADT, same-sex marriage, and pretty much everything else that falls under the category of ‘gay rights.’  And I suppose that I have a certain detached sympathy for the way that the questions that Sudbay asked on this topic were generally answered by the rhetorical equivalent of the metal end of a belt to the face.
Very detached.  As I’ve already noted, I didn’t vote for the man, and Sudbay belongs to a site that likes to reflexively blame Republicans for everything from the eventual heat death of the universe to the general lack of the McRib sandwich.  I’m not about to pretend that I’m a Buddha or anything.
Moe Lane
Via Cynthia Yockey, who I believe also didn’t vote for Obama.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: americablog, ann althouse, dadt, ssm 
Share on Facebook














         Oct
30
         2010         


--












#rsrh My OTR statement re Brian Baird.

I don’t give a tinker’s dam what a man who voted for the stimulus, cap-and-trade, & Obamacare does or does not think about good governance, and neither should you.  And neither should the incoming bumper crop of freshman Republican Members of Congress, particularly since many of them are getting into office in large part because of the moral cowardice of people like Brian Baird.
Go home, Baird: raise your kids, have a good life, stay out of politics from now on.  Can you do that for the Republic?  Great, thanks, don’t let the door hit you in the rear on the way out.
Moe Lane
PS: Jaime Herrera for WA-03.  Grown-up.
 

Written by Moe_Lane in: Politics | Tags: brian baird, jaime herrera, wa-03 
Share on Facebook












Older Posts »


























 ARE YOU LOOKING AT COLLEGE TEXTBOOK PRICES, AND HAVING A CORONARY?  CLICK HERE.




Contact me.






Amount




--

The link above goes to the account paying site fees.






Blogroll

A Chequer-Board of Nights and Days (Updated)
A Conservative Lesbian
Age of Sail
Baseball Crank
Blog of Much Holding
Blueshelled
Confessions of a Political Junkie
David Thompson
Fausta’s Blog
Foundation
Hawk’s Plateau
Hickpolitics
Jeff Emanuel
Kevin Holtsberry
Liber Ex Machina
Lileks
Little Miss Attila
Markets & Policy
NTCNews
Piece of Work in Progress
Publius Forum
Rathergate (In Memoriam)


Contributors

Countup from Dystopia
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Humor

Cracked.com
Lowering the Bar
The Manolo
TV Tropes
Websnark
Weekly World News


Politics

Ace of Spades
ActiCons
Barack Obama’s Teleprompter’s Blog
Big Hollywood
Camille Paglia
Conservative Grapevine
Deceiver.com
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
IMAO
Instapundit
Jim Treacher
Jules Crittenden
Legal Insurrection
Mickey Kaus
Protein Wisdom
Reason Hit & Run
Red Dog Report
RedState
Right Wing News
The Daily Beast
The Gormogons
The New Ledger
The Other McCain
The Skepticians
What’s Wrong with the World


Reciprocal

American Elephants
Apropos of Nothing
BigGator5
HotMES
Point of a gun
Pragmatic American
The Skepticrats
The Sundries Shack
Track a ‘Crat


The Glorious Moeticae Family Empire

Liber Licentiae Moeticae
Mi Contra Fa (My wife’s site)
Weblog Licentiae Moeticae


Recent Comments Moe_Lane: You seem to be under the impression that Krugman’s head being filled with cheese would downgrade his...
Kresh: I suppose there’s easier ways of saying “I warned you about the aliens because they’re here...
jetty: Too bad that the Dems don’t control both the House and Senate – they could just deem it passed,...
Demosthenes: We have to pass the bill so we can find out who wrote it.
Catseye: Everyone is asleep, I don’t want to wake them up, but that hurt. It still does, it always will. Ah the...
Moe_Lane: Mike: Apparently Obama does.
Mike: So, you don’t believe in passing a bill without either reading it or have the paper necessary to sign it?
Catseye: Krugman. The Capering, Gibbering, Fool for the Left has managed to Finally outdo himself. That is all...
 Twittermoelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY September 12, 2011moelane: MoeLane: PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09. http://t.co/CG97kmY […]moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz September 12, 2011moelane: RT @ppppolls: Biggest concern for Dems in poll: no enthusiasm gap. This isn't Dems not showing up. It's Dems voting GOP: http://t.co/S3Q79Dz […]moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. September 12, 2011moelane: @Alvin691 In that district, there aren't that many of 'em to begin with. […] Technorati Profile








The background is from Maxfield Parrish's Ecstasy, and is (to the best to my knowledge) in the public domain.
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Tag Cloudbarack obama
book of the week
California
congress
cpac
damned lies
dccc
democratic party
democrats
dnc
doom
elections
Florida
harry reid
health care
illinois
illinois combine
israel
joe biden
lies
massachusetts
missouri
movie of the week
nancy pelosi
new jersey
new york
nrcc
obama
obamacare
ohio
pennsylvania
qotd
rasmussen
sarah palin
senate
statistics
stimulus
tea parties
tea party
texas
that woman
unemployment
virginia
webcomics
wisconsin












Site by Neil Stevens
 | Theme by TheBuckmaker.com






