Urban Christian News: Search Results


Web Toolbar by Wibiya





FRONT PAGE          Bookmark UCN   |   Make UCN Your Homepage   |   Refresh UCN 
Subscribe to our Weekly Newsletter 






Today is  



SEARCH OUR SITE















































1

        
        
                                    Results tagged “Texas”
        
                                



List of 2011 Largest, Fastest-Growing Churches Released Today 


    
                By UCN on September  9, 2011 11:11 AM





Pictured: Lakewood Church, Houston, TexasWith evangelical churches today, the word is 'big.'


            Continue reading List of 2011 Largest, Fastest-Growing Churches Released Today .
        





Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires 


    
                By UCN on September  8, 2011  4:51 AM





Two firefighters are worn out after battling a wildfire off Foster School Road near Needville, Texas, on Wednesday afternoon, Sept. 7, 2011. (AP Photo/The Courier, Patric Schneider)Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.


            Continue reading Texas Firefighters Gain Ground Against Wildfires .
        





Bastrop, Texas Wildfire 30% Contained


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  3:05 PM





Danielle Prieto, 17, sits outside a neighbor's destroyed home after residents were allowed to return to the Steiner Ranch neighborhood of Austin, Texas. The home was one of many burned by wildfires which began to spread into the area Sunday. ( Shannon Kintner / The Daily Texan / September 6, 2011 )A favorable shift in weather conditions is giving Texas firefighters their first chance to make inroads against devastating wildfires that have been roaring across the state.


            Continue reading Bastrop, Texas Wildfire 30% Contained.
        





Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm 


    
                By UCN on September  7, 2011  4:02 AM





Brothers Ben, left, and Nathan Clements survey their fire-destroyed home, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 2011, in Bastrop, Texas. The Clements lost their home to fires Monday. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.


            Continue reading Firefighting Crews Get a Reprieve as Winds Fueling Massive Texas Wildfire Finally Calm .
        





Texas Fire May Keep Rick Perry from Wednesday's Presidential GOP Debate 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  2:12 PM





Gov. Rick Perry holds a news conference to discuss wildfires in Texas on Monday. Perry has curtailed his campaigning to deal with the fires. (Eric Gay / Associated Press / September 6, 2011)Citing the press of business from wildfires ranging across Texas, Gov. Rick Perry, the front-runner in most polls for the GOP presidential nomination, on Tuesday left it up in the air as to whether he will attend Wednesday's Republican candidates debate.


            Continue reading Texas Fire May Keep Rick Perry from Wednesday's Presidential GOP Debate .
        





Worst Fire in Texas History Destroys More than 1,000 Homes


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  1:56 PM





Virginia Esquivel, right, is comforted by her neighbor, Yolanda Rodriguez, after Esquivel's home in Cedar Park, Texas, burned on Sunday. Two homes on the street were destroyed by the fire. (Jay Janner / Associated Press)The most destructive wildfire on record in Texas showed no signs of slowing Monday, destroying 25,000 acres in Bastrop County and more houses than any single wildfire, according to the Texas Forest Service.


            Continue reading Worst Fire in Texas History Destroys More than 1,000 Homes.
        





Texas Battles Raging Wildfires


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  5:39 AM





CLICK HERE TO VIEW SLIDESHOW ON FLICKR






Wildfires Burn Across Texas: "We Got a Long Way to Go" 


    
                By UCN on September  6, 2011  3:39 AM





A fire rages near Highway 71 east of Bastrop, Texas, on Monday Sept. 5, 2011. A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee. (AP Photo/Austin American-Statesman, Jay Janner)Shannon Lilie had five minutes to flee her home, but she was frozen.


            Continue reading Wildfires Burn Across Texas: "We Got a Long Way to Go" .
        





Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland 


    
                By UCN on September  4, 2011  4:46 PM





Waves in Lake Pontchartrain from tropical storm Lee crash into a seawall in the West End section of New Orleans on Saturday, Sept. 3. Heavy rain and strong wind gusts from Lee knocked out power to thousands in south Louisiana and Mississippi. (Newscom)Tropical Storm Lee dumped more than a foot of rain in New Orleans and spun off tornadoes elsewhere Sunday as its center came ashore in a slow crawl north that raised fears of inland flash flooding in the Deep South and beyond.


            Continue reading Flood Threat from Tropical Storm Lee Expands Inland .
        





Rain from Tropical Storm Lee Hits Land, Gulf Coast States Brace for Flooding


    
                By UCN on September  3, 2011  4:59 AM





A surfer waits with his board to surf on Thursday, Sept. 1, in Dauphin Island, Ala. (G.M. Andrews/Mobile Press-Register/AP)Heavy rains from Tropical Storm Lee were falling in southern Louisiana and pelting the Gulf Coast on Saturday as the storm's center trudged slowly toward land, where businesses were already beginning to suffer on what would normally be a bustling holiday weekend. The storm could bring as many as 20 inches of rain to some areas.


            Continue reading Rain from Tropical Storm Lee Hits Land, Gulf Coast States Brace for Flooding.
        





20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast


    
                By UCN on September  2, 2011 11:42 AM





This satellite image taken by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration early Friday shows the tropical depression advancing on the U.S. southeastern states. The storm is expected to intensify to tropical storm strength before making landfall in Louisiana on Saturday. (NOAA/AP)A tropical depression packing walloping rains for the Gulf Coast was spreading its rain bands Friday over southern Louisiana ahead of what forecasters warned could be a drenched Labor Day weekend across the region, with up to 20 inches in places.


            Continue reading 20 Inches of Rain? Flood Warnings for US Gulf Coast.
        





Texas A&M Plans to Leave Big 12 by July 2012


    
                By UCN on September  1, 2011  6:22 AM





A general view of play between the Texas A&M Aggies and the Arkansas Razorbacks at Dallas Cowboys Stadium on October 3, 2009 in Arlington, Texas. (Getty Images North America)The official Texas A&M fight song includes a line that bids farewell to Texas, "so long to the orange and white." By this time next year, Texas A&M may have said goodbye to a lot more than its storied, century-old rivalry with Texas.


            Continue reading Texas A&M Plans to Leave Big 12 by July 2012.
        





Judge Strikes Down Key Provisions of Texas Abortion Bill 


    
                By UCN on August 31, 2011  8:17 AM





The law would make it significantly more difficult for women to get abortions, the judge says. (AP Photo)A federal judge on Tuesday blocked key provisions of Texas' new law requiring a doctor to perform a sonogram before an abortion, ruling the measure violates the free speech rights of both doctors and patients.


            Continue reading Judge Strikes Down Key Provisions of Texas Abortion Bill .
        





Texas Pastor Launches Drive-In Church 


    
                By UCN on August 31, 2011  6:48 AM





Rev. David Ray, pastor of Presbyterian Church of the Master, stands in the parking lot conducting the service as churchgoers watch through their dashboard windows. (WFAA/ABC News)On a Sunday in Lucas, Texas, churchgoers didn't file into pews. They pulled into parking spots.


            Continue reading Texas Pastor Launches Drive-In Church .
        





Census: Marriage, Divorce Rates Higher in the South then Northeast 


    
                By UCN on August 25, 2011  3:10 AM





(Corbis Images)Where you live may influence your attitudes and actions toward marriage and divorce more than you think, suggests a federal report out today that gives the clearest picture in 20 years about the evolution of marriage and divorce across the USA.


            Continue reading Census: Marriage, Divorce Rates Higher in the South then Northeast .
        





Texas Gov. Rick Perry Officially Enters G.O.P. Race for President 


    
                By UCN on August 13, 2011 12:20 PM






Rick Perry: Time to Get America Working AgainWe will not sit back and accept our current misery...because a great country requires a better direction...because a renewed nation requires a new president. That's why, with faith in God, the support of my family, and an unwavering belief in the goodness of America, I am a candidate for President of the United States.Rick Perry, the conservative governor of Texas, declared himself a candidate for president on Saturday, shaking up the race for the Republican nomination to face Democratic President Barack Obama in 2012.


            Continue reading Texas Gov. Rick Perry Officially Enters G.O.P. Race for President .
        





Prayers Answered: Texas Finally Gets Some Rain 


    
                By UCN on August 13, 2011  8:21 AM





Xavier Swain, 11, holds his hands in the air during a downpour Thursday in Odessa, Texas. The official rain total from the National Weather Service at nearby Midland International Airport reported .36 inches of rain, the most since September 25, 2010. (Albert Cesare  /  The Odessa American via AP)A little rain still better than none


            Continue reading Prayers Answered: Texas Finally Gets Some Rain .
        





Analysis: Rick Perry's Entrance to the Race May Pose Biggest Threat To Frontrunner Romney 


    
                By UCN on August 12, 2011  3:52 AM





Former Massachusetts governor and Republican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney, attends a business roundtable to discuss the economy during a campaign stop at the Vermeer Corporation on August 9, 2011 in Pella, Iowa. (Scott Olson/Getty Images North America)The biggest development of the Republican presidential campaign on Thursday happened in Austin, Texas -- 1,000 miles from the leadoff caucus state where GOP front-runner Mitt Romney and seven of his opponents squared off ahead of an important test vote this weekend.


            Continue reading Analysis: Rick Perry's Entrance to the Race May Pose Biggest Threat To Frontrunner Romney .
        





Scientists Say Texas Was Once Joined to Antarctica 


    
                By UCN on August  9, 2011  3:14 PM





The Franklin Mountains in West Texas were once part of Coats Land in Antarctica, according to Staci Loewy, a geochemist at California State University.Texas may be suffering through a 100-plus degree heat wave, but long ago, the weather must have been surprisingly different. 


            Continue reading Scientists Say Texas Was Once Joined to Antarctica .
        





The Response: Texas Gov. Leads Prayer Rally in Houston


    
                By UCN on August  6, 2011  5:32 PM





CLICK HERE TO VIEW SLIDESHOW ON FLICKR






                                    1 2 3  Next >












 




September 11 Memorial Opens to Public Today 


9/11 Attacks Remembered by People of Many Faiths 


Christian Activist, Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Co-founder Team Up for Presentation on Peace, Militarism 


Rick Warren's 9/11 Sermon: 'Fear Not' 


Interfaith 9/11 Prayer Vigil Calls for Tolerance Between Religions 


Americans Remember 9/11 in Different Ways 


President Obama at "A Concert for Hope" Hails the Hope and Heroism of 9/11 


27-24: NY Jets Rally Past Cowboys for Last Minute Victory 




 

















































SEARCH OUR SITE













   


URBAN CHRISTIAN NEWS
Front Page
God's Love for You
Subscribe

   


ABOUT
About / Contact UCN
Privacy
UCN on Facebook
UCN on Twitter
UCN on Flickr
UCN Widgetbox
UCN on Amazon KINDLE
UCN RSS Feed

MORE
UCN Video Blog
Photos
Blogs
Press Releases
Prayer Requests

   


SITE LINKS
Christian
National
World
Culture
Life
Society
Health
Sports
Science
Education
Technology
Opinion
Books
Music
Movies










