Hiking Locations around San Marcos | Clarewood Apartments



News FeedComments





Home
Living at Clarewood Apts
Your Team at Clarewood Apts
Gallery











Apartment Living

Around Town

Food

Go Green












	Browse > 

Home / Around Town, Health & Fitness / Hiking Locations around San Marcos
	





Hiking Locations around San Marcos

Posted on September 6, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet






Escape the house this weekend at one of these great hiking trails in San Marcos.
One of the key factors to living a long and productive life is to remain physically active. Taking the time to go to the gym, or spend time outdoors, will help relieve stress, lower free radicals, maintain weight and boost your metabolism. An easy way to become active is to go on a hike over the weekend. Hiking is an easy activity that many people can do with family, friends or on their own. Here are some great locations to go hiking in San Marcos.
Purgatory Creek Natural Area is 9-acres of semi-developed parkland west of Clarewood Apartments. The semi-developed natural area has roughly three miles of paved and unpaved trails that course through beautiful forest and some wetlands. For novice hikers, there is a mile stretch of accessible, crushed limestone trail with maps located in a kiosk. The easiest access point to the trail can be found at 1414 Prospect Street.
Roughly five-miles from Clarewood is Ringtail Ridge Natural Area. The forty-acres of lightly developed parkland used to be ranch land, but it has been converted into a nature area. The park has half a mile of accessible trail as well as two miles of unmarked loop trails through forest and grasslands.
Schulle Canyon Natural Area was once owned by the John Cox family before it was passed on to the state as a nature preserve. The twenty-one acres of undeveloped parkland has a half-mile of 6-foot wide gravel trails used by hikers and mountain bikers. Hikers can also find under a mile of natural surface trails extending to Sierra Circle and the rear of Highcrest Apartments.
Get out of the house and immerse yourself in nature at one of these great hiking trails in San Marcos. Each trail offers you the chance to get away from the suburban life for a day outside with family or friends.





Add To Calendar
Filed under Around Town, Health & FitnessTags: family friendly events in San Marcos, Health and Fitness in San Marcos TX, Outdoor activities in San Marcos TX
You might also like...

 Some Simple Ways to Help Homeless Pets VIVA Cinco De Mayo, And Viva Menudo Thursdays Are Concert Days In San Marcos Get Outdoors For Some Water Recreation, San Marcos! 







Speak Your Mind

Tell us what you're thinking... 

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website














WE’RE EVERYWHERE YOU ARE, CONNECT WITH US!
Enter your email address:








YOU LIKE US, YOU REEEALLY LIKE US!


Recent Comments
No comments.

 



Event Calendar


« Aug





Oct »


September 2011

M
T
W
T
F
S
S


 1234
567891011
12131415161718
19202122232425
2627282930EC




 Recent Posts

3 Ways to Help Victims of the Central Texas Wildfire
Hiking Locations around San Marcos
Learn how to cook in-season Vegetables at ‘Flavors of Autumn’
Spotlight on the Texas State Bobcats
Internship opportunities in San Marcos


Login

Username: 
Password: 
 Remember me













Categories

Apartment Living

Around Town

Featured

Food

Go Green

Health & Fitness

Uncategorized




Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011






















Copyright © 2011 · All Rights Reserved · Powered by WordPress and NCI · Privacy Policy  · User Agreement · Fair Housing · Log in












