Superstar Djs Marc Mysterio & Teo Moss Start 2009 with a Cover of Daft Punk Classic – One More Time | Release Wire



BlogHelpPitching TipsWriting Tips








Superstar Djs Marc Mysterio & Teo Moss Start 2009 With a Cover of Daft Punk Classic – One More Time
January 2, 2009 | Author: groopoffers | Posted in Music



Happy New Year to all!
As we bring in 2009, let us start the new year off right and “Celebrate and dance for free”!
With ‘Let Loose’ having just been named as one of the top 100 tracks  of the year in Ukraine, Russia, Greece, Toronto, and elsewhere, and   ’Roll Wit It’ promising to be a major force on charts in 2009 with  support from Roger Sanchez, Laurent Wolf, Stonebridge, Axwell, Fedde Le  Grande and Matt Darey  – to name a few —  North America’s Top Producer  of Vocal House, Marc Mysterio teams up with French Electro Superstar  and Radio FG Underground Resident Teo Moss, bring us a re-make of the  Daft Punk classic “ONE MORE TIME”!!!
Vocals by fellow Canadian Yardi Don (aka Craig Smart) —  the top  male vocalist in dance music — “Summerjam”, “Candy On The Dancefloor”,  and “One Love World Love” fame on vocals…
The song is available for free download on Marc Mysterio’s Myspace page at www.myspace.com/mcmysterio


“I always loved this song, and it — as well as DAFT PUNK, the  origanal artist(s) — influenced both Teo and I, given our french  backgrounds (Marc of Montréal and Téo of Paris), in our careers.  However, with the standard bpm in dance music now being between 128 to  130, it made mixing the origanal very difficult given its bpm of 122. It  just didn’t sound right. I always thought that if Bob Sinclar did a rmx  of One More Time, like a World Hold On sorta vibe, it would rock.  Having done various remixes for Chris (Bob Sinclar), I reached out to  Téo to co-produce this track with me, since we were already working  together on some other projects — he immediatly agreed! Thereafter,  while on tour in Vancouver, I met Craig (Yardi Don), whom also loved the  origanal song and shared our collective passion to re-make this classic  with a 2009 feel to it. Although, I am not generally a fan of re-makes  (since they usually fail to live up to the origanal and the vocals are  generally pretty weak on them, not to mention that they are made by  unknown vultures looking for attention rather than for the love of the  origanal), I felt totally confident in putting my name on this project  given our individual accomplishments. We all did this project for fun  and that is something that you do not get the opportunity to do in the  music business often. Additionally, its not often that 3 reknowned and  talented folks put egos aside to do a fun project. Hence, this is not a  follow up track to our current singles, we are not putting together a  one sheet, huge remix package, or an elaborate album cover — its just a  fun project that three great and talented guys — from different  continents — put together for personal enjoyment!!! That said, we do  have high expectations that it will chart well and, moreover, I trust  that this version will live up to some of the other great  re-interpretations out there, such as Smooth Criminal by Alien Ant Farm,  etc… Our fans, Supportive Radio Jocks, Club DJs, and the rest of you  should feel free to share our re-creation amoungst all of your friends  which gives meaning to the lyrics ‘celebrate and dance for free’ in  2009″
- Marc Mysterio on the production and re-interpretation of ‘One More Time’.

# # #
World Class Records is one of the leading record labels in the world and boasts a rich talent roster, including:
Marc Mysterio, Lillix (Gold Album on Maverick — 500,000+ albums  sold in 2006), Gary Pine (Love Generation & Sound of Freedom –  Sinclar), Sandy Vee (Bleep), Teo Moss (Moss & Szade, + remixer of  Sinclar, Stonebridge, etc..), DJ Ralph (Born To Rave – JOIA, ), Karl G,  Klubjumpers (top US RMX Duo), Mike Bordes (Sirius Satellite Radio 36 The  Beat), Dennis Ciallela (Sirius), Tiff Lacey (Oakenfold – Hypnotized,  Darey, ATB, etc..) Laura V (Changes/Chris Lake & Let Loose /Marc  Mysterio), Lisa Law (Takin Over Me – Red Sky & Doray) , Nogales,  Linda Newman, Yardi Don (One Love World Love), Sami Dee, Emma Hewitt  (Carry Me Away w/ Chris Lake) , Karl G, Bjorn Wolf (co-founder of  Flamingo Label of Fedde La Grande), Frank Turgeon, Steve Bear Sas,  Nuvex, Mean Streets, Nic Kat (I Beleive in Love — Stonebridge &  Keep On by Dj Ralph), Max C (I Found U — Axwell),
— end —
News from ReleaseWire.
 
Comments Off Tags: daft punk, music, one more time

 
Author: groopoffers
GroopOffers Decided to Start a Discount Coupons for Restaurants,Shopping Discount Coupons,Deals in Ur City and other best things to do in your city.Check today's discount deals in your city!
            This author has published 1 articles so far.                    


Comments are closed.

More News From ‘Music’

A Dose of Classic Rock and Blues on Honey Child’s Debut Album Riverland
High Energy and Feel Good Rhymes in Digital EPs Released by Hip Hop Artist J Biz
JMD Distribution’s Digital Music Distribution Platform Provides Indie Artists the Largest Global Network to Sell Music
Windy Town Releases a New CD – Mozart & Beethoven for PETS – an Album for You and Your Pets to Enjoy Together
Dane Estok Releases an EP of Alternative Pop Songs
Hip-Hop MC Blue Legacy Goes Beyond Mix Tapes, Releases Digital Singles
New Software Allows Beginners the Ability to Play and Practice the Piano With Extras
Song Robot Software – Your New at-Home Piano Tutoring Software
Italian Rock Band Bound to Make Waves With the Release of Their Debut Album
Seattle-Based Band Puget Sound System Release Rock Fusion Album






Submit Press Release


Username:



Password:



Remember Me



Register | Lost your password?


Advertise Here Contact us for information about advertising with ReleaseWire.

Useful Links







Most Popular



100%
Election Results 2011 website released – Get live updates of assembly elections


86%
Enterprise mobility market: Global Forecast & Industry Analysis (2010 - 2015)


72%
Global Solar Photovoltaic Market Analysis and Forecasts to 2020


55%
"A Good Man is Hard to Find" Returns to The Stage in 2011 – Live and On DVD


38%
73 Year Old Wins Miss Cougar America 2011 Title





Recent Releases

Authors Pose the Question Are We Poisoning Our Kids With Food?
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Books, Health & Fitness, Medical & Health

Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. New York, NY – September 12, 2011 — Today, nearly one-in-three children is overweight or obese. Children are now developing obesity-related diseases, previously considered primarily adult conditions, at an alarming rate. Diabetes is showing up in children as young as …



The Journey Towards an HIV Cure Has Already Started
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Medical & Health

The time between now and the day when a cure for HIV is found is rapidly decreasing. What didn’t seem possible a generation ago is now within striking distance. At this point, it’s not a matter of if an HIV cure will be found, but when. Toulon, France, September 11, 2011 — The time between …



AAA Backs Forecast for Rise in Brazil Real Estate Values
September 12, 2011 | Author: staronepr | Posted in Business, Investment

Alternative Asset Analysis has backed forecasts that Brazilian real estate sector is poised for further expansion, boosting the foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country. Boston, MA, USA, September 11, 2011 — The Brazilian real estate sector is expected to help boost the foreign direct investment (FDI) in Brazil even further, said Anthony Johnson of …



Darwinian Evolution Revised for Human Society and Machines
September 12, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment, Books

The Theory of Evolution addresses biological changes over billions of years. A similar process, social evolution, applies to human societies. Now, another evolution has started: machine evolution. Which will win? Jacksonville, FL, September 12, 2011 – The theory we call Darwin’s Theory of Evolution, is actually a theory about the biological development of “life forms” …



Les Paul Is Dead. Now DOJ Is Trying to Kill Off Gibson Guitars as Well
September 11, 2011 | Author: straightlinepr | Posted in Arts & Entertainment

A recent Department of Justice raid on the headquarters of Gibson Guitars puts in question the fate of Gibson Guitars. The raid also may have serious implications for musicians and their instruments, throughout the United States. Nashville, TN, September 09, 2011 (Straight Line PR) — This story, incredible as it may seem, is true. It …



 


 

RSS feed
    © 2011 Release Wire



