lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2011 » January






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Monday, January 31, 2011
Lan Ying

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


Lan Ying was a Chinese painter active in the early 17th Century (late Ming dynasty). He was noted for his paintings of flowers, plants and landscapes. The latter were beautiful examples of a kind of Chinese landscape painting I particularly enjoy, with delicate, softly toned calligraphic linework and beautifully handled washes, evocative of mist, atmosphere and subtle suggestions of texture.
Lan Ying was also noted for his portrayals of fascinatingly complex rocks, of a kind often chosen for gardens as suggestive of miniature mountains (image above, bottom right, featured here).
He was considered representative of the Zhe School of Chinese painters. I’ve see a number of his works in which the title indicates that he is deliberately painting in the style of particular artists that preceded him whose work he greatly admired.


Link: Metropolitan Museum of Art, also here
MFA Boston
Indianapolis Museum of Art
XABusiness, also here
Detroit Institute of Arts
Art Institute of Chicago
Walters Art Museum, and here
Wikimedia Commons
PEM
ArtNet, with bio
ArtCyclopedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »


Friday, January 28, 2011
Super Bowl Art Bet

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:54 am 
 


It’s long been a tradition for mayors and other representatives of rival American cities to make wagers on the outcomes of major, season-ending sporting events like the Baseball World Series and, in particular, the Super Bowl football game.
Last year, prompted by a dare from Modern Art Notes writer Tyler Green, two art museums  from cities whose teams were in the Super Bowl made a bet of major art loans against the outcome of the game. 
After the New Orleans Saints Beat the Indianapolis Colts in that game, the Indianapolis Museum of Art (see my recent post on the IMA) loaned a significant painting by JMW Turner, The Fifth Plague of Egypt (image above, third down), to the New Orleans Museum of Art, which had wagered the loan of Ideal View of Tivoli by Claude Lorrain (above, bottom).
The major museums of the rival cities involved in this year’s Super Bowl have taken this idea (and a terrific one it is) into its second year. 
The Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittburgh has wagered the loan of Renoir’s Bathers with a Crab on a Pittsburgh Steelers win, while the Milwaukee Art Museum has put up Boating on the Yerres by Gustave Caillebotte, betting that the Green Bay Packers will take the trophy.
Personally, I think Pittsburgh stands to get the better end of the deal; though Renoir is considered to be the more “significant” painter, I’d take the Caillebotte any day. (A choice between the Claude and the Turner from last year would be harder.)
At any rate it’s great fun, and raises the visibility of the museums and their collections in the midst of an event usually far removed from the art scene; so both museums come out winners.
Here’s Tyler Green’s article about this year’s bet. I’ve included links to some other articles covering the wager below.


Link: We have a Super Bowl bet!, Tyler Green, Modern Art Notes
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Flavorwire
Art Daily
NYT
Boston.com
Fox Sports

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, January 27, 2011
Olga Dugina & Andrej Dugin (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


When I wrote about the intricate, richly textured and wonderfully idiosyncratic illustrations of Olga Dugina & Andrej Dugin back in 2006, they did not have a dedicated web presence.
Since then, Dugin has established a website, Duginart, that represents both artists (they are married). 
The Gallery has sections devoted to illustration by each artist, as well as the more familiar work done jointly, along with paintings and graphics by Dugin.
Unfortunately, the reproductions on their site are frustratingly small and don’t give an adequate feeling for the texture and detail in the work.
I stumbled across this unofficial post of some of their work, another here, an unofficial gallery here (click through twice to larger image), and there is also a selection here.
For the best look at their work, of course, see it in print. You can find several of the books they have illustrated on Amazon.
For more, see my previous post about Olga Dugina & Andrej Dugin


Link: http://duginart.com
unofficial post
igrateney.ru
Unofficial gallery
My previous post about Olga Dugina & Andrej Dugin

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   14 Comments »


Tuesday, January 25, 2011
Un Tour de Manege

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


Un Tour de Manege (“A Turn of the Carousel”, if I’m interpreting it correctly) is another animated gem that comes out of Gobelins, l’ecole de l’image. 
Credited to Nicolas Athané, Brice Chevillard, Alexis Liddell, Françoise Losito and Mai Nguyen; the short (3 minute) animation deals with a young girl who is separated from her mother and appears to live out her life (or does she?).
The style is a beautiful mist of pastel and watercolor effects; the animation is fluid and the concept and storytelling imaginative (watch it twice if it doesn’t seem to make sense at first).
[Via MetaFilter]


Link: Un Tour de Manege, on Vimeo

Posted in:  Animation   |   5 Comments »


Sunday, January 23, 2011
The Indianapolis Museum of Art

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:45 pm 
 


I’ve never been to Indiana, let alone to the Indianapolis Museum of Art, so this is not a first person account. It is rather the happy result of one of my art browsing habits, using the Museum Listing feature of the Athenaeum online art resource to browse a skimming of various museums’ collections (see my post on The Athenaeum).
The Athenaeum’s page for the Indianapolis Museum of Art caught my attention with pieces by John Singer Sargent, Edmund Tarbell and William Merritt Chase.
On arriving at the museum’s site, I immediately  clicked through to their collection of American Painting and Sculpture to 1945, and from there started browsing through the little interactive slide presentation for American Impressionism, one of my favorite schools of painting. 
Though not the most convenient browsing arrangement (a simple page of thumbnails would be better, but museums seem to love these widgets), it is still a way into the collection, clicking on the thumbnails to particular piece, then clicking through to a page of works by that artist in the museum’s collection.
To my delight, I found that not only does the museum have a terrific collection of American Impressionism, which is deep for some artists, like William Merritt Chase, they also have a nice method of presentation for works in the collection. 
Thumbnails are linked to a decently sized image that opens in a pop-up, instead of the tiny cramped Zooming windows favored by many museums, letting you get a much better feeling for the work as a whole.
In addition they often have several photos of the same work, some of which have color and value reference cards in the photos, making it possible to get an accurate take on the color of the image. What a great feature! So many images of artworks on the web are off-color, even those posted by the most prestigious museums.
My exploration of the site has been brief so far, and the images I’ve chosen to highlight are more representative of my own preferences than the museum’s collections, but I was also impressed with their holdings in European Painting and Sculpture.
One might wish for a list based browsing feature, allowing an easier grasp of the holdings in a particular area, but you can search the collections for  specific artist, or using broader terms like, oh, say… “American Impressionism“.
The collection online looks well worth investigating in depth, and of course, for those who live close enough to travel to the museum in person, a treat to visit.
(Images above: Edmund Tarbell, Richard B. Gruelle, Frank W. Benson, William Merritt Chase, John Sharman, John Cotman Sell, Rembrandt, Jan Brueghel the Elder.) 


Link: www.imamuseum.org
Collection Search
The Athenaeum's page

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Museums   |   8 Comments »


Friday, January 21, 2011
Sally Strand

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:06 pm 
 


Sally Strand’s bright, energetic pastels and lively oil paintings treat her subjects not so much as objects as vehicles for the play light as expressed through texture.
In her pastels in particular, textures made up of a variety of colors reveal patterns of value contrast as light splashes across her still life arrangements and quiet room interiors. 
Invoking one of the best qualities of pastel, its rich immediate expression of pigment with a minimum of binding material, she gives even her muted shadow colors a vibrancy that makes the whole work feel alive.
Strand studied at the American Academy of Art in Chicago, the Art Students League and the National Academy of Design in New York.
In the portfolio on her website you’ll find a mixture of her subjects. Be aware the there are several pages of the gallery, accessed from an easy to miss link at the bottom of the thumbnails. You’ll also find more pieces in the Archive section. 
You can also find articles about her work, with illustrations, in her website’s Press section, including articles from the Pastel Journal and SouthWest Art.
You cans find her work represented at the Telluride Gallery of Fine Arts. 


Link: www.sallystrand.com
Telluride Gallery

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   4 Comments »


Thursday, January 20, 2011
Sean Andrew Murray

Posted by Charley Parker at 3:29 pm 
 


Sean Andrew Murray, AKA “Muttonhead”, is a concept artist and illustrator currently working with Big Huge Games/38 Studios. He has previously worked with Turbine on “Dungeons and Dragons Online” and “Lord of the Rings Online”, as well as clients like Privateer Press and Wizards of the Coast.
Murray often likes to work in an ink line and filled color approach as opposed to the digital painting styles more common in the field. That, and his predilections for quirky subjects and settings, can give his work the feeling of slightly twisted children’s book illustration. 
He has a nicely imaginative, sometimes enjoyably grotesque approach to character design, and a knack for illustrating environment concepts in a way that gives them some of the feeling of weirdly intricate set designs.
His website is divided into Paintings, Drawings and Concept Art and Illustration. In the Drawings section you will often find preliminary drawings for some of the pieces you’ll see in the other sections. You can also fine preliminary drawings along with works in progress and other pieces on Murray’s blog.
Murray works in both traditional and digital media and you can also find a gallery of his work on CGHub. His sketchbook drawings were the subject of a feature article in ImagineFX #34, there is an extract on Murray’s blog. 


Link: www.seanandrewmurray.com
http://sketchsam.blogspot.com (blog)
CGHub
Etsy page

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   6 Comments »


Tuesday, January 18, 2011
Hans Versfelt

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:44 pm 
 


Hans Versfelt is a painter in the Netherlands who paints from life, either plein air or on-location interiors. 
His paintings have that kind of clear immediacy, tactile brushwork and fresh color that is often associated with the practice of painting on location. 
Versfrelt portrays the landscape, canals, boats, farmland, towns, bridges and even windmills of the area with an eye to contrasts of light and shadow and appealing color relationships. He works with crisp, blocky brushstrokes, often defining a form with one or two strokes of color.
Though his website is in Dutch, English speakers and others can easily navigate the galleries linked on the left. The first four are “Pictures painted on Location” followed by two of “Drawings”, two of “Portraits and Interiors” and one of “Portrait drawings”. The others are “Contact”, a “CV” and a link to Versfelt’s blog. (The link to a page of links is unfortunately broken.)
Non Dutch speakers can also try Google Translate (English). 
Versfelt’s blog isn’t extensive, but still has works of interest.


Link: www.hansversfelt.nl
http://hansversfelt.wordpress.com (blog)
Galeries.nl

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   3 Comments »


Monday, January 17, 2011
Iassen Ghiuselev

Posted by Charley Parker at 4:00 pm 
 


It’s unfortunate that, in spite of the cross cultural potential of the internet, the exposure to American audiences of illustrators, comics artists and gallery artists from other continents is still limited. I’m certain that if the work of Bulgarian illustrator Iassen Ghiuselev received more exposure here in the U.S., he would be quite popular, or at least have a cult following. 
Ghiuselev produces a variety of fascinating, beautifully drawn and painted illustrations for classics like Pinocchio, Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Don Quijote, King Authur and Oliver Twist. 
His sometimes intricate and richly detailed works range from brightly colored to almost monochromatic. They are filled with lush textural elements and show the influence of Medieval, Renaissance and 19th Century Academic art, as well as the literary Victorian and Edwardian painters like the Pre-Raphaelites.
Through all of his work Ghiuselev puts his own imaginative turn on the subject matter, like his illustrations for Socrates that are rendered within the silhouettes of Greek characters, broken as though cracked artifacts; and his illustrations for Don Quijote that look as though they were prepared to be Renaissance murals.
I’m particularly impressed with his two ambitious takes on illustrating Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland Through the Looking Glass in which he has created large scale complex images, resplendent with disorienting projections of curved perspective and Escher-like reconfigurations of architectural space. These are apparently then divided into smaller crops used as illustrations throughout the book (images above, 2nd down and detail, 3rd down).
The illustrations section of his website is divided into book titles. Don’t miss the section for “cards” which features his beautifully realized, clever and sometimes dark interpretations of the Tarot deck (image above, bottom). 
In the “other works” section, two of the subsections are empty, but the “drawings” section is well worthwhile.
Unfortunately, the majority of the illustrations on his website are frustratingly small, given that much of the charm in Ghiuselev’s work is in the textures and details. However, in many of the illustration sections, the first image is larger than the others and gives you at least a taste of what the rest of the images must be like.
You can also find books that Ghiuselev has illustrated listed on Amazon and Jacket Flap (click on title, then on cover image for larger version).
Iassen Ghiuselev in Delaware this week.
Iassen Ghiuselev will be visiting Wilmington, Delaware this week, at events sponsored by the Delaware College of Art and Design. He will be at a free wine and cheese reception in the school’s main gallery at 6th and Market Streets in Wilmington tomorrow, Tuesday January 18, 2011 from 5 to 7p.m. 
For more information call 302.622.8867 x107 or see the website page for What’s New and click on the heading for “Award-winning Bulgarian Illustrator to visit DCAD”.
Pieces for his illustrations for Pinocchio (image above, top) will be on view as part of an excellent exhibit of several bulgarian illustrators, Storytelling with Quill and Brush, that has been extended to the end of the week for the length of Ghiuselev’s visit. 
On Saturday, January 22, Ghiuselev will give a lecture at the Delaware Center for the Contemporary Arts, also in Wilmington.


Link: www.iassen.com
Bio on Wikipedia

Posted in:  Illustration   |   7 Comments »


Saturday, January 15, 2011
Punch & Judy (Scott McKowen & Christina Poddubiuk)

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:28 pm 
 


When I first featured the work of Scott McKowen back in 2007, I couldn’t find a web presence or much information about him or his wonderful scratchboard illustrations.
Since then he has established a joint website with Christina Poddubiuk, highlighting McKowen’s abilities as an illustrator, art director and graphic designer and Poddubiuk’s skills as a costume and set designer (images above, bottom 3).
Their paths intersect in theatre oriented illustrations by McKowen, as well as costume design by Poddubiuk for some of McKowen’s illustrations, such as the Alice in Wonderland cover shown above, and the illustration of the Queen of Hearts, for which she was also the model. 
When I featured McKowen previously I highlighted his striking covers for the Marvel Comics series 1602, which is where I first encountered his work.
 You can see more of his book covers and interiors on the Marlena Agency site. You can also search out his book covers on Amazon and view some of them on JacketFlap (click through the titles to the book detail, then click on the cover image for a larger version).
There is little background information on either artist on the Punch & Judy site. There is an interview with McKowen on the Schuler Books Weblog, and another on Lucid Forge.
Though it’s not highlighted on the Punch & Judy site (for reasons that are lost on me), there is a book collection of McKowen’s illustrations, A Fine Line: Scratchboard Illustrations by Scott McKowen from Firefly Books.
When viewing the website, be sure to open your browser window to maximum, as the images are displayed with a clever script that resizes them to the available window area. Be aware that in each section there are additional images accessed from the numbered links at the top, and don’t miss the sketchbook section.
[Via Drawn!]


Link: www.punchandjudy.ca
Marlena Agency book covers and interiors
A Fine Line: Scratchboard Illustrations by Scott McKowen (Amazon)
Scott McKowen on Marvel Comics
Scott McKowen on Amazon
My previous post about  Scott McKowen

Posted in:  Illustration,Pen & Ink   |   8 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






