Baylor, 5 other Big 12 schools could threaten legal action as SEC invites Texas A&M | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Monday, September 12, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

Weather
9/11 — 10 Years
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

new: football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

new: Weddings
Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today


Blogs

new: Joe Science
Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Waco News																		   » 
							Waco Breaking News 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS






Please enable JavaScript to view this site



Baylor, 5 other Big 12 schools could threaten legal action as SEC invites Texas A&M
From staff and wire reports
Wednesday September 7, 2011

  









   Email
   Print
  




		 
	

		 
	




More
• E-mail: Baylor raised legal issues over A&M to SEC
• Arkansas AD: School was approached by Big 12
• South Carolina president: Texas A&M welcome in SEC.html

Sound off
> Should Baylor sue A&M if it leaves the Big 12?

Reports
The following reports name Baylor as the school threatening a lawsuit:
• Orangebloods.com
•  ESPN.com
•  SI.com
•  Dallas Morning News

Statements
> What Big 12, SEC officials are saying





6:20 PM — Statement from Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe: 'This is the first time to my knowledge that a conference has been requested to waive any legal claims toward another conference for any damages suffered with a membership change.
The Big 12 Conference was asked by Texas A&M University and the Southeastern Conference to waive any such claim to help facilitate Texas A&M's departure from the conference without any consideration to the Big 12. Although they were not obligated to do so, the Big 12 Board of Directors decided to accommodate that request as it relates to The Big 12 Conference Inc., which is reflected in the Sept. 2 letter sent to SEC commissioner Mike Slive.
However, the waiver did not and could not bind the individual member institutions' governing boards to waive institutional rights. If the departure of Texas A&M results in significant changes in the Big 12 membership, several institutions may be severely affected after counting on revenue streams from contracts that were approved unanimously by our members, including Texas A&M.
In some cases, members reasonably relied on such approval to embark on obligations that will cost millions of dollars.'

UPDATE, 3:55 PM: Baylor was among six Big 12 schools that will not sign a waiver to allow Texas A&M to go to the Southeastern Conference following a meeting of the Big 12 presidents Wednesday afternoon, a source close to Baylor told the Tribune-Herald.
The other schools were Kansas, Kansas State, Texas Tech, Iowa State and Missouri.
If Oklahoma reaffirms its commitment to the Big 12, the schools are expected to sign the waiver that would allow the Aggies to go to the SEC without any legal action. The Sooners, who are reportedly considering a move to the Pac-12, are expected to make their decision within the next two weeks.
— Tribune-Herald staff

UPDATE, 2:50 PM: AP reports: "A person familiar with the Big 12 situation told The Associated Press 'multiple schools' had not given up their right to legally challenge a move by Texas A&M. The person spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because no public announcement had been made." Full AP story below:
 
By John Zenor / Associated Press
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — The Southeastern Conference cleared the way for Texas A&M to join its ranks — with a wrinkle.
At least one Big 12 school has threatened to sue if the Aggies leave the fold.
The announcement Wednesday that the SEC will make the Aggies the 13th SEC team once the legal issues are resolved is the latest step of a courtship which the Aggies initiated in July.
The SEC, which would become the first BCS conference with more than 12 members, said it received "unanimous written assurance" from the Big 12 on Sept. 2 that it was free to accept Texas A&M. The presidents and chancellors met late Tuesday "with the intention of accepting the application of Texas A&M to be the newest member of the SEC. "
Then the deal hit a snag.
"We were notified (Tuesday) afternoon that at least one Big 12 institution had withdrawn its previous consent and was considering legal action," said Florida President Bernie Machen, chairman of the SEC leaders. "The SEC has stated that to consider an institution for membership, there must be no contractual hindrances to its departure. The SEC voted unanimously to accept Texas A&M University as a member upon receiving acceptable reconfirmation that the Big 12 and its members have reaffirmed the letter dated September 2."
The Big 12 didn't say which school was threatening legal action. However, Mississippi State President Mark Keenum said it's "my understanding" that Baylor was the school holding up the move.
A person familiar with the Big 12 situation told The Associated Press "multiple schools" had not given up their right to legally challenge a move by Texas A&M. The person spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because no public announcement had been made.
The Big 12 did not return a message left seeking comment.
In a Sept. 2 letter, released by the SEC, Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe told SEC Commissioner Mike Slive that there were no legal hurdles to the SEC accepting Texas A&M, as long as it happened by Thursday afternoon.
"We both agreed it is in the best interests of each of our conferences and our member institutions of higher education to waive any and all legal actions by either conference and its members resulting from admission of Texas A&M into the SEC, as long as such admission is confirmed publicly by September 8, 2011," Beebe wrote.
However, despite the letter, Slive was informed more than once before the SEC vote Tuesday night that "maybe more than one" of the other nine Big 12 members were considering legal options against a possible Texas A&M move, according to the person familiar with the Big 12 situation.
The SEC "thought it was clear and free without any possible issues. That is not what happened," said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the private nature of those discussions.
The Sept. 2 letter was not intended to waive the rights of individual schools to sue and decisions like that need approval from various boards of regents and other university overseers, the person said.
"That certainly is not going to happen soon. You are not going to get all nine. You might get some," that person told the AP. "Very few, if any, are willing with the uncertainty and instability of the Big 12 at this point to release their claims."
Texas Tech President Guy Bailey in a text message confirmed that the university's board of regents would have to waive the school's right to pursue legal action. He also said Big 12 members were planning a conference call later Wednesday.
Texas A&M officials were disappointed.
"We are certainly pleased with the action taken last night by the presidents and chancellors of the Southeastern Conference to unanimously accept Texas A&M," President R. Bowen Loftin said in a statement. "However, this acceptance is conditional, and we are disappointed in the threats made by one of the Big 12 member institutions to coerce Texas A&M into staying in Big 12. ... These actions go against the commitment that was made by this university and the Big 12 on Sept. 2. We are working diligently to resolve any and all issues as outlined by the SEC."
Mississippi Chancellor Dr. Dan Jones said the SEC felt the Big 12 letter offered clear legal standing.
"It's in the hands of Texas A&M and the Big 12," Jones said. "We've been clear that we'd be happy to receive them if they're unfettered of obligations. We gathered to have a vote. We had a letter that clearly gave us legal clearance. It was frustrating to be gathered and then have things pulled out from under Texas A&M like that. We're disappointed for Texas A&M."
But the league doesn't want to wage a court battle for the Aggies.
"Texas A&M is a great school, but we don't' want to involve ourselves in any legal action over all of that," said David Williams, Vanderbilt's vice chancellor for University Affairs and Athletics.
He added that "all 12 schools are together on that statement."
Texas A&M announced last week that it planned to leave the Big 12 by July 2012 if invited to join another league. The Aggies had been unhappy with the creation of the Longhorn Network at rival Texas and have made it clear they want a higher profile and more revenue.
The SEC will also reap the revenue and extended visibility as a result of the move.
Adding Texas A&M is "a business decision," a person familiar with the situation has told the AP previously. The person said the move gets the SEC into the Texas market.
"You know how many households there are in Texas? 8.9 million," the person said, adding that the league had no choice but to listen when the Aggies came knocking. "Why would we want to hand that to the Pac 12 or any another conference?"
Said Tennessee coach Derek Dooley: "The landscape is changing. It's that old saying: It's not about the money, it's about the amount."
The state of Texas is also fertile recruiting ground.
"I certainly understand adding a Texas team into the conference," LSU coach Les Miles said Wednesday. "A&M has a great historic following and is a traditional power that certainly brings the interest of Texas."
"Texas football is great high school football ... The dynamics are significant."
The Aggies will likely have to pay an exit fee for leaving the Big 12. It cost Nebraska $9.25 million and Colorado $6.9 million. But that shouldn't hold the move up considering the SEC distributed a record $18.3 million in revenue to each of the 12 members this year.
The Aggies' intentions have sparked more talk of conference realignment stretching across the country.
The Big 12 has already lost Nebraska (Big Ten) and Colorado (Pac-12). Oklahoma president David Boren said last week that multiple conferences have expressed interest in the Sooners and he expects a decision within a few weeks. Oklahoma State billionaire booster Boone Pickens also said he doesn't think the Big 12 will survive much longer and predicted the Cowboys will eventually join the Pac-12.
It might not be over for the SEC, either, if the league that has won the last five BCS championships in football decides to add a 14th team or even expand to a 16-team superconference.
Mississippi State's Keenum said Slive has assured the schools that "scheduling issues" caused by having imbalanced divisions could be ironed out.
Vandy's Williams also doesn't think it's necessarily imperative that the SEC add a 14th team to maintain.
"The Big 10 stayed at 11 for quite awhile," he said. "I think that our folks at the conference they'll work all of this out; 12, 13, 14 whatever it is we'll be a happy family."
———
AP Sports Writers Stephen Hawkins, Teresa Walker, Beth Rucker and David Brandt contributed to this report.

UPDATE, 11:40 AM: A source close to Baylor confirmed to the Tribune-Herald that last week Big 12, Inc. voted that the conference itself wouldn't pursue any litigation against Texas A&M or the SEC about the Aggies leaving the conference.
However, the individual schools have not made the same pledge. At this point, none of the nine schools has signed an agreement not to sue A&M and the SEC, the source said.
The Big 12 presidents of the nine remaining schools will hold a teleconference this afternoon on the issue.
Commissioner Dan Beebe is expected to release a statement after that meeting.
— Tribune-Herald staff

Earlier Wednesday: According to multiple media reports citing unnamed sources, Baylor University is the school cited in media that has not agreed to waive its right to sue Texas A&M. Mississippi State President Mark Keenum later said it's "my understanding" that Baylor was the school holding up the move.
A report from Chip Brown of Orangebloods.com says the university is "seriously considering" a lawsuit against the SEC, as well as against league president Mike Slive.
The school recently contacted Baylor alumni via an e-mail campaign (click here to view) to encourage alumni to contact Texas legislators.

Statement released Wednesday from Dr. Bernie Machen, chair of Southeastern Conference Presidents and Chancellors
'After receiving unanimous written assurance from the Big 12 on September 2 that the Southeastern Conference was free to accept Texas A&M to join as a new member, the presidents and chancellors of the SEC met last night with the intention of accepting the application of Texas A&M to be the newest member of the SEC. We were notified yesterday afternoon that at least one Big 12 institution had withdrawn its previous consent and was considering legal action. The SEC has stated that to consider an institution for membership, there must be no contractual hindrances to its departure. The SEC voted unanimously to accept Texas A&M University as a member upon receiving acceptable reconfirmation that the Big 12 and its members have reaffirmed the letter dated September 2, 2011.'
———
Statement Wednesday by Texas A&M President R. Bowen Loftin
'We are certainly pleased with the action taken last night by the presidents and chancellors of the Southeastern Conference to unanimously accept Texas A&M as the league's 13th member. However, this acceptance is conditional, and we are disappointed in the threats made by one of the Big 12 member institutions to coerce Texas A&M into staying in Big 12 Conference. These actions go against the commitment that was made by this university and the Big 12 on Sept. 2. We are working diligently to resolve any and all issues as outlined by the SEC.'
———
Copy of Sept. 2 letter from Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe to SEC Commissioner Mike Slive, released Wednesday by the SEC
'This is to confirm our discussion yesterday during which I informed you that the Big 12 Conference Board of Directors unanimously authorized me to convey to you and their colleagues in the Southeastern Conference that the Big 12 and its members will not take any legal action for any possible claims against the SEC or its members relating to the departure of Texas A&M University from the Big 12 and the admission of Texas A&M into the SEC; provided, however, that such act by the SEC to admit Texas A&M is publicly confirmed by 5:00 p.m. (CDT) on September 8, 2011.
Such admission of Texas A&M will result in the withdrawal of Texas A&M from the Big 12 Conference effective June 30, 2012. We both agreed it is in the best interests of each of our conferences and our member institutions of higher education to waive any and all legal actions by either conference and its members resulting from admission of Texas A&M into the SEC, as long as such admission is confirmed publicly by September 8, 2011.
If any of your presidents and chancellors have concerns about this commitment of the Big 12 Conference, they may contact me or Brady Deaton, Big 12 Board of Director chairman and chancellor of the University of Missouri, Columbia.'
———
Sept. 6 letter sent by Beebe to Slive at 10:39 p.m. (provided to The Associated Press by Loftin):
'Dear Mike:
You have notified me that the SEC is willing to accept the application of Texas A&M to become a member of the SEC, provided that the Big 12 member institutions individually waive any legal actions against the SEC for its decision. I recognize that this issue has been raised due to Baylor University's indication that its governing board has not waived the university's rights. As you know, the attached letter waived the right of the Big 12 Conference Inc. to take legal action against the SEC. Missouri Chancellor Brady Deaton, chair of the Big 12 Board of Directors, has told me that he informed Texas A&M President Bowen Loftin that such action by the Big 12 Conference Board of Directors was not binding on the individual institutions' governing boards. If you seek waivers by the individual institutions, you must receive them from those institutions directly. I regret any confusion on this issue.  Best regards, Dan'
RELATED SEARCHES

Baylor raised issues over Texas A&M to SEC
South Carolina president: Texas A&M welcome in SEC
Arkansas AD: School was approached by Big 12





61  Comments  
			| Post a comment


  









   Email
   Print
  




			 
		


				MORE IN WACO BREAKING NEWS »





 

	 




 bub2011  
Sep. 09, 2011, 12:04PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Bryan,

Did you sign a contract? No? Then you should be just fine.  If you had signed a contract then your company could sue you.  Hope that helps!  By the way, Baylor hasn't sued anyone and hasn't said they have any intention of suing.  They are simply not going to waive the right to do that.  And who in their right mind would do that in their situation.




			 
		




 Wisest ONE of ALL  
Sep. 08, 2011, 3:15PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is just showing how worthless a college it is.  They are far more impressed with themselves than anybody else with them.  But when you have a college run by people with attitudes that belong in the 19th century you will find problems that face Baylor.  The only exception to these attitudes come about because of athletes.  Baylor is money first and foremost and all else is ignored.




			 
		




 Jack.Legg  
Sep. 08, 2011, 12:08PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I love all these aggies who think they are so entitled...How dare anyone not do exactly what the aggies want...Cry babies...just go back to the chicken and drink your poor me sorrows away and wake up with the peanuts tomorrow.




			 
		




 Brian  
Sep. 08, 2011, 9:09AM

					(Report Comment)
					












I just found out that my coworker is suing me because I found a new job.  I gave the company 2 weeks notice, but my coworker decided that I was valuable to the company.  If I leave, who will carry his part of the workload?




			 
		




 Brazosdog  
Sep. 07, 2011, 11:17PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I find it wildly funny that a little baptist school can wring the teet of one of the big female dog schools.  Oh, and Baylor had nothing to do with the breakup of the SWC.  That would have been, let's see, TEXAS and TAMU! Baylor was just looking for a place to land and had by far the best athletic dept of the other private schools.




			 
		




 Zino  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:48PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is quickly becoming one of the most disrespected and disliked universities in the NCAA.  Starr goes around making up fake stories about OU not leaving the conference, puts out press holier than thou press releases trying to make Baylor look like Mother Theresa instead of a bitter have-not, and seems think what UT, A&M, and Tech are doing to them is different than what Baylor did to TCU, SMU, etc.  

This morning people felt sorry for Baylor, now people totally hate Baylor.

It's amazing that since Baylor can't get invited to another conference on it's own merit, it's trying to screw up everyone who can by deceitful and underhanded methodology. 

Baylor better hope it can hold the Crap 12 together because there isn't another conference in America that will give the Bears a second look now.




			 
		




 Dan  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:27PM

					(Report Comment)
					












New battle cry for the Big 12 - "Grow a pair - Vote revenue share" You want to solidify this conference - vote to share the revenue equally. 9 yeas and one nay - what an amazing idea - apply a civics 101 lesson and use the democratic process to attack the real problem - unequal power balance - 12 memebers, 12 votes, 12 shares - a conference network that won't be boring 24/7 and actually have an audience of 'subscribers'. You want to save the conference, level the playing field. You can do that with a vote and not a lawsuit.




			 
		




 Bryan  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:26PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I don't understand how the letter from the big 12 actually equates to approval from all of the big 12 members to waive rights to legal actions.  It makes sense to me that the waivers would need to come from the institutions.  I have independent contractors work for my company.  If I waive my right to sue another entity, I can not waive the rights that belong to my independent contractors and their companies.

Other shcools have made plans based upon ATM's commitment to the big 12, announced less than one year ago, and the TV agreement that was negotiated. ATM started the realignment ball rolling again after their recommitment and the new TV deal.  ATM should have left before last year before they decided to reneg on the honor and dignity of their insitutions commitments from less than 12 months ago.




			 
		




 SA Dave  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:20PM

					(Report Comment)
					












All Baylor is doing is standing up for what's right.  I'm embarassed for the Aggies re-trading the commitment they made to the BXII and to Baylor last year. Of course BU has few if any other BCS options....because the Aggies did a bait-n-switch from last year.  The whole thing is an embarassement to both schools....but typical Aggies...cant remember beyond their last "whoop"!




			 
		




 Kyle  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:02PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I have lost all respect for Baylor. They are a classless university for what they are trying to do. If the Big 12 does break up what conference is going to want you after these actions. Do you really think schools in Conference USA or Sunbelt are really going to want to accept a school that threatens to sue to keep schools from bettering themselfs? You are a joke! I am a die hard Aggie fan who use to pull for Baylor but never again will that happen. Baylor didn't seem having any problem leaving TCU, SMU, Houston and Rice out to dry in the 90's. I dont recall them sueing to keep Baylor in the Southwest Conference and block them from bettering themselfs by joining the Big 12. A&M is going to the SEC and no second rate school is going to stop that. I hope Mike Sherman and the Ags run up the score on your sorry ***!




			 
		




 Steve Plumbtree  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:45PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Start the lawsuit so A&M can get their counter-claim on file right away.  The SEC should grow a pair and call Baylor's bluff.  I hope they end up playing in a conference with Lamar, and they will probably still lose most of their games.




			 
		




 lufkin  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:41PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is so weak that it must threaten others to keep them in their company?  Baylor stinks!




			 
		




 newport1980  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:23PM

					(Report Comment)
					












It’s obvious that Baylor is doing the dirty work for Texas. When this is all over and the Big XII folds, two things will happen:
1)	No conference will want Baylor because of their current behavior.
2)	Texas will dump Baylor like a used condom.




			 
		




 Aggie67  
Sep. 07, 2011, 9:19PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is a proud university with a great academic tradition. The actions they are taking now are not fitting of a school with their reputation. The alumni should tell Ken Starr to stop embarrassing the university, and then fire him. The Big XII will fold, and Starr is destroying any possibility of Baylor joining another conference.




			 
		




 Dustin  
Sep. 07, 2011, 8:47PM

					(Report Comment)
					












What a bunch of losers. Baylor is acting like the little kid hanging on to his dad's leg and not letting go until he gets his way. I am sure that is really impressing all the other conferences. Baylor should spend as much energy trying to get into another conference instead of holding on to a dead man walking conference.




			 
		




 just_wondering  
Sep. 07, 2011, 8:36PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I'm really curious about why it is that Baylor seems to be having no problem standing up to the Aggies, but where were they when the members of the Big 12 needed them and the other schools to stand up to Texas. You have receieved your just reward for not helping keep the horns under control and now because of those actions you are holding the aggies hostage. And you want OU to pay the ransom. What a group of theive and crooks you are. But then since the Baptist theme song is "HOW GREAT I AM", I guess we shouldn't have expected anything better.




			 
		




 Darva DeLong  
Sep. 07, 2011, 7:55PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor Leaders = wannabe+losers+hypocrite




			 
		




 chmba  
Sep. 07, 2011, 7:31PM

					(Report Comment)
					












When the Big 12 (Texas and the lapdogs conference) folds, what conference is going to want a bunch of second class programs who are going to threaten lawsuits every time they don't like something.  Ken Starr is a joke as a college president and this foolishness affirms it.




			 
		




 Mark the good Ag  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:50PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Dear Baylor Hypocrites,
 
You had no problem joining the BIG-12 in the nineties leaving Rice, TCU, SMU, and UH behind (They did not sue you!), but now you feel the need to stomp your feet and sue when you simply feel threatened! Where were your threats of law-suits when Nebraska and Colorado left? Where have your voices been for all the years t.u. has run the conference for their own benefit? Why are you threatening A&M not OU? Where is the logic in your thinking? Is your only position to be a t.u. suck-up and maintain status quo? Wow, your history! Ann Richards bought for you a possibly undeserved fifteen years of BCS sports! Are law suits your preferred method to entice other schools to play with you? Unbelievable! Did you ever think that developing a fan base for support, filling stadiums, and bringing something to the conference would endear you to the world of collegiate sport rather than lawyers? BUT NO, your answer to a sound conference is to gang up on and hold hostage the only school that is willing take a chance and strike out for another way! You certainly won't man-up to your master (t.u.) You should be embarrassed!




			 
		




 SECAggies  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:45PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Failor had no problem screwing over TCU, SMU and UH a number of years ago.  Last year they had no problem taking the penalty fees from CU and NU.  What are they going to do if OU, OSU, TT and tu decide they want to leave for the PAC-16?  What a frigin joke the cubbies are.  Can't wait to whoop your tails at Kyle!!!!




			 
		




 Derric  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:36PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I find it hilarious that Baylor is holding this position when they had no problem leaving SMU and others behind during the formation of "the big Texas", I mean big twelve.




			 
		




 Real Baylor Fan  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:33PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Why do people think it is good for Baylor to roll over? Other schools are telling Baylor they want to stay in the Big 12, then making other arrangements behing the scenes. BU knows that CUSA is a death sentence, ask SMU. This is just a stall tactic until we can find an equitable solution for all the Big 12 schools, not just UT and OU. Baylor gets nothing from playing by UT's rules.




			 
		




 bobby  
Sep. 07, 2011, 6:00PM

					(Report Comment)
					












New cheer for A&M/BU game: C-U-S-A.  Whoop!




			 
		




 Nina  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:59PM

					(Report Comment)
					












So why didn't Baylor file suit against Nebraska and Colorado when they jumped ship from the Big 12????????




			 
		




 Anon  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:52PM

					(Report Comment)
					












What I think is stupid is how everyone keeps blaming Baylor when it's evident they are not the only ones refusing to sign the waiver. They aren't suing anyone all they are doing is not giving their rights away to take legal action if need be. A&M is leaving for money and Baylor is trying to get money for itself. It has nothing to do with wanting A&M to stay. The SEC is actually the one holding up the move because they won't accept A&M without all the waivers from the other schools. You can't blame Baylor or the other schools for looking out for themselves or at least contemplating it for a while. There's so many economical factors involved. And by OU recommitting to the Big XII that's saying that the conference will probably survive so they can sign the damn waivers finally get rid of A&M and move on. But without reassurance they will have a good home when it's all said and done they aren't gonna just sign all their rights away.




			 
		




 Dan B  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:46PM

					(Report Comment)
					












The political threats made on Baylor's behalf 16 years ago have not been forgotten. They stepped in their own mess and the smell lingers. Who wants a bully as a partner? The Big 12 model was doomed from the beginning any yet Baylor once again seeks an'ambulance chaser's' remedy but the tail will not wag the dog this time. The SEC and others need to fire a shot across the Big 12's bow for their 'recruiting' potential expansion targets. Never thought I would say this 'Wooo Pigs Sue ey!




			 
		




 sooner cop  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:33PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Here's OU's answer to the committment:

1:  Dan Bebe is gone

2:  Equal revenue sharing

3:  No individual TV stations.  Create a Big12 channel and go on down the road.  

Of course #2 and #3 screw Texas who started this whole mess with the LHN




			 
		




 Your Nemesis  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:33PM

					(Report Comment)
					












"Oh yes, 55 years after Aggies John David Crow won the Heisman Trophy, BU's RG3 will match that merit of the Aggies."

Not by winning 7-8 games, Cubbie.  Run the table in the Big 12 & that might happen.  But wait, I almost forgot...you're Baylor.

Let's see if you can win at Kyle Field for the first time since 1984.




			 
		




 BU Fan  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:28PM

					(Report Comment)
					












As a Baylor Bear, I'm embarrassed that we would be threatening to sue. If A&M, Texas, TTU, OU, and OSU want to leave the big 12 (now 10), we should not stand in their way.  We would be better off in CUSA anyway.  As excited I was the other night beating a not nearly as good TCU team than last year, the fact that was only our second top 25 victory in 7 years playing in the Big 12 is sad.  Basketball, baseball, softball, track is competitive but we only drew 43,753 attendance playing against TCU (who brought at least 15,000 - 20,000).  We simply don't have the fan support in football to be playing in a BCS conference. Now we look like a child fighting over a toy.  I don’t think suing people to keep them in your conference upholds the fine traditions of Baylor.  We are better than this!




			 
		




 pablo  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:27PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Why would OU care if Baylor or any of the others sue the SEC? That doesn't affect OU in the least - unless they're trying to give OU a warning shot of its own - and in that case the Big XII is doomed for sure. How do you foster OU's loyalty by trying to threaten them or hold them hostage?

I realize the smaller Big XII schools are desperate, but cutting your own throats isn't going to help you in the long run. It will only mean that if OU does leave OU will do nothing to help the interests of the smaller schools - and could do everything in its power to inhibit the interests of the others (especially Baylor which only has a brief history with OU).




			 
		




 Tom  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:23PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor ought to be ashamed - trying to hold together a failing conference with blackmail.  Expect OU to move faster now.




			 
		




 L newberry  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:09PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Please remove Texas Tech from your list of schools that are threatening lawsuits. This is inaccurate. Not 1 big 12 school has signed anything. But Tech, among others, have verbally said they will not seek action against SEC or A&M.




			 
		




 Walter  
Sep. 07, 2011, 5:01PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is an embarrassment to the state of Texas.  It was political corruption that got them into the Big 12 in the first place.




			 
		




 M  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:49PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor isn't suing anyone.  All Baylor is doing is refusing to sign a waiver, as are several other Big 12 schools.  Why should Baylor give up it's rights?  And Baylor suing A&M????  It's about legal action against the SEC, not A&M, you brainiacs.  Reading comprehension isn't a strong point amoung a lot of writers of these comments.




			 
		




 jd  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:41PM

					(Report Comment)
					












The report about Texas Tech is not accurate




			 
		




 Hilarious  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:41PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Keep sticking it to the sheep Baylor. This is so hilarious. Anyway, you have to wonder when the TX legislature gets involved and b*tch slaps all the TX schools and not allow any of them to go anywhere. This is really becoming an embrassment to the state.




			 
		




 Dave S.  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:39PM

					(Report Comment)
					












"Texas A&M is a proud member of the Big 12 Conference and will continue to be affiliated with the conference in the future. As Athletics Director Bill Byrne and I have stated on numerous occasions, our hope and desire was for the Big 12 to continue. We are committed to the Big 12 and its success today and into the future.” 

-----words of A&M president R. Bowen Loftin on June 14, 2010




			 
		




 Bob  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:35PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Texas Tech is not threatening to sue Baylor.  The 3:58 update is not accurate in regards to Tech.




			 
		




 Dan O'Brien  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:32PM

					(Report Comment)
					












The newest report is incorrect.  Texas Tech along with OU, OSU and Texas have given assurances that they aid they will not sue.




			 
		




 Matthew  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:29PM

					(Report Comment)
					












This is why Baylor is a private institution. The taxpayers of this state would be outraged if they had to provide one red cent to this pathetic excuse for a higher education institution. Get off the floor and stop throwing your pathetic tantrum and go to the Sunbelt where you belong. 

Any Baylor grads or alums who are not disgusted with the way your school is behaving...This speaks volumes about your character or lack thereof.




			 
		




 Whatever  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:26PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Poor Baylor,  You will never amount to anything, you can't even drum up support from the town you are in.




			 
		




 CycloneReport.com  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:26PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Your 3:55 update may be the most enlightening information of the last 30 days on this subject.  It's not about Texas A&M.  It's about Oklahoma.  Well done, good source at Baylor.




			 
		




 Jim  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:25PM

					(Report Comment)
					












baylor is a skid mark on the underpants of college athletics.  your legacy is skinned cats, abused girlfriends (lace dunce), murder, and getting stomped every year in football.  ken starr is your president!  LOL.  Losers.




			 
		




 Brad  
Sep. 07, 2011, 4:24PM

					(Report Comment)
					












This is like suing your wife to prevent a divorce. Even if you win, what have you won?

Oh, and remove TTU from the list of hold outs. It's misinformation.




			 
		




 john  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:28PM

					(Report Comment)
					












did u of h,tcu,smu threat to sue baylor when they jumped ship from the southwest conference to the big 12 a few years ago?




			 
		




 cos  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:17PM

					(Report Comment)
					












great article




			 
		




 Jack.Legg  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:14PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I love how all of you guys are so quick to criticize without having all the information...If you guys are so in the know then how come you didn't predict this already?  Because you don't know squat...your just throwing a tantrum like you are accusing BU of doing...and because you didn't have the foresight to work your own TV deal...So in typical aggie fashion you take your ball and go home...why "agree" to keep the Big 12 intact if you never had that intention...talk about political manueverings!  You guys are the pot callingthe kettle black!




			 
		




 Curt  
Sep. 07, 2011, 3:03PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor can't stop A&M from leaving for another conference.  All Baylor is doing is confirming to the country they will sue to get their way.  Not a great quality when Baylor will eventually have to go courting other conferences for future membership.  Ken Starr: prosecutes a president; sues a university; what's next...sue God because the sky isn't green with gold clouds?!?




			 
		




 Whatever  
Sep. 07, 2011, 2:49PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Can we please read, The Sept. 2 letter was not intended to waive the rights of individual schools to sue and that decisions like that need approval from various boards of regents and other university overseers, the person said.

"That certainly is not going to happen soon. You are not going to get all nine. You might get some," that person told the AP. "Very few, if any, are willing with the uncertainty and instability of the Big 12 at this point to release their claims."

In a text message, Texas Tech's Bailey confirmed that the university's board of regents would have to waive the school's right to pursue legal action. He also said Big 12 members were planning a conference call later Wednesday.

this from ESPN:




			 
		




 Ken H.  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:47PM

					(Report Comment)
					












As a tax paying citizen of Texas I believe the state funded schools owe an allegiance to and have a duty to be a part of what's best for the state of Texas, more so than the private institutions.  In my mind that's having a strong conference of our on. Let's keep Texas football in Texas where all the citizens can travel and see the games easily and affordably.




			 
		




 Dan  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:20PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Read the letter from B12 to SEC - it says big 12 and individual institutions won't sue.  But considering Baylors history, with murder, coverup, poor fan actions and more, and hiring a hack like Ken Starr as president, I should not be shocked by any stupid thing they do.  Consider this - the longer you hang up A&M leaving, the more the other members of the B12 are sure they don't want to salvage a conference with a has been like BU in it......




			 
		




 JB  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:16PM

					(Report Comment)
					












Ken, I say $50MM is the price the Ags need to pay to put your school in Conf. USA




			 
		




 Bob  
Sep. 07, 2011, 1:03PM

					(Report Comment)
					












I think it is petty that Baylor would sue another University, just because of a football move. A & M  saw what was happening to the Big 12, and did something to help their cause. Of course Baylor could try the same thing, but I can't think of another BCS conference that will want them when all is said and done. I think you should thank your lucky stars that you were opportunistic enough to have a friend in the Governors office when the Big 12 was started and now you know how it feels. You don't have a T.V. market and after you have to grovel with all the other non BCS schools nobody is going to want to go to Baylor to play ball and you will be the doormat for whatever program you end up in. Welcome to the real world Bears!




			 
		




 Josh T.  
Sep. 07, 2011, 12:36PM

					(Report Comment)
					












The Big 12 dispanding would be the best thing to happen to Baylor.  Not being in a conference could provide them the best opportunity in playing a legitimate bowl game.  Baylor is the wipping boy for football in the Big 12, and this will never change.  I think Baylor has an opportunity of joining TCU in the Big East.




			 
		




 James A. BU Class of '71  
Sep. 07, 2011, 11:54AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Sic 'em Bears! I wish the best for Baylor should a lawsuit be filed upon Texas A&M. Oh yes, 55 years after Aggies John David Crow won the Heisman Trophy, BU's RG3 will match that merit of the Aggies. Per Ruby and the Romantics of that 50s rock 'n roll era, "Our Day will come."




			 
		




 eye in the sky, not in Waco anymore  
Sep. 07, 2011, 11:17AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor should try being an independent.




			 
		




 LSUTiger  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:38AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Baylor is about to find itself in an ugly lawsuit.  3 days ago A&M had the 'go ahead' from all Big12 members (including Baylor) to leave the Big 12 and then approached the SEC.  Only now Baylor is trying to stop it (understandably) for what they know will result in financial damages.  However now A&M would have a clear case of finanical damage because of Baylor trying to stand in the way.  Baylor should have spoke up last week.  It's now to late to stop this train so stop be petty!!




			 
		




 eye in the sky, not in Waco anymore  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:27AM

					(Report Comment)
					












What Baylor?  You beat one ranked team in however many years and you suddenly think you have credentials?




			 
		




 eye in the sky, no longer in Waco  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:25AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Could this have been prompted by Ken Starr?  Give it up Ken.  A&M will go to the SEC.  You can make it hard on Baylor, or you can make it easy on Baylor. Now it seems like it will come down to the lawyers.  Give me $500 on A&M.




			 
		




 Dirtydeeds  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:22AM

					(Report Comment)
					












There goes Baylor kicking & screaming because no one is inviting them to play. You should appreciate the free ride you were given in the Big 12 and be done with it. Now, because of this temper tantrum, no one is going to want you. You will be lucky to end up in Conf- USA.




			 
		




 Victor Humongous  
Sep. 07, 2011, 10:22AM

					(Report Comment)
					












Where was Baylor's loyalty to tradition when they left with Texas and company to go to the B12?  

Seems to me they don't like being left behind like they left others behind in the old Southwest conference.  

Man up and start finding a solution because Oklahoma and Texas are leaving next.




			 
		






 
 





Name: (required) 

Email: (required) 



Comments: 




























 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 
Database searches




 

Check it out! Find out more info about your world — see everything we offer inside The Data Source.

 
Popular searches

Waco area restaurant inspections
Waco police arrest reports
Waco police warrants
Waco area marriages
Waco area divorces
Waco area foreclosures
Waco bankruptcies

 










Most Read





Most Read |
				Most Emailed |
				Most Commented







Baylor, 5 other Big 12 schools could threaten legal action as SEC invites Texas A&M
Texas Lottery results for Sept. 7, 2011
Deadly wildfires claim more than 1,000 Texas homes
Baylor throws a block to stop Texas A&M leaving Big 12
Transgendered Baylor grad to return to Waco for event
Bruceville-Eddy man gets 45 years for killing grandfather













 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 







 





 

 







 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 



























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
High schools
High schools blog
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Order reprints
BLOGS
Staff blogs
Community blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




