Why do businesses move to Nevada? | Morning in Arizona




Home
About



Morning in Arizona
Arizona: Open for Business




Why do businesses move to Nevada?
Posted by Alan Bomberger  on | January 11, 2011 | 2 Comments

There is no corporate income tax.  You might ask why this is important?
Corporations do not pay income taxes.  Yep!  Ask yourself where does a corporation get its money?  Every dime comes from 3 sources; borrowing by selling bonds, equity by selling shares, and income by selling products.  There is no printing press in the basement. Borrowed money and equity are used to buy equipment, research new products, and pay rent.  Income is used to pay salaries, purchase supplies, and to pay taxes.  So every penny of taxes comes from the sale of products.  Corporations collect taxes from customers, they do not pay them.
Corporate taxes, therefore, influence the price of a product.  The lower the tax, the lower the price.  So companies that locate in States with lower corporate taxes get a price advantage and thus a market advantage.  Low corporate taxes might even result in some manufacturing returning from offshore because the price advantage from manufacturing in a low tax country would be less.
If Arizona wants to compete with Nevada for businesses it must eliminate the corporate income tax.
[survey id="1"]

 
Category: Tax ReformTags: Arizona taxes > corporate income tax

Comments


2 Responses to “Why do businesses move to Nevada?”


 Carolyn
					January 14th, 2011 @ 9:36 pm 		
					
Do states with no corporate taxes have high sales taxes?



 Alan
					January 14th, 2011 @ 10:09 pm 		
					
First, a corporate income tax is a sales tax because it is passed through in the price.  A state with more businesses will have more jobs with more people paying income and sales taxes.  Any shortfall in revenue can be made up by cutting spending or raising some other tax.  Even if the sales tax goes up in Arizona to make up for the revenue lost from the corporate (sales) tax, the business has the same price advantage selling products in other states and overseas.



Leave a Reply

Name (required)

Email Address(required)

Website


Comments



 Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting.





GOP Legislator Tweets

Categories

Select Category
Arizona Budget
Arizona Sunlight
AZ Conservative
Az House Republicans
AZ Senate Repulicans
Border Issues
Education
Energy
EspressoPundit
Gila Courier
Health Care
Heuisler
Ideas that Work
Intellectual Conservative Arizona
Papa Todd
Public Pensions
RedState
Saddlebrook
SeeingRedArizona
SonoranAlliance
States Rights
Tax Reform
TheChollaJumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party
Uncategorized



Archives

September 2011 (229)
August 2011 (386)
April 2011 (1)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (9)
January 2011 (14)


Blogroll

Arizona House Republicans
Arizona Senate Republicans
Arizona Sunlight
AZConservative
Bill Heuisler
Espresso Pundit
Gila Courier
Intellectual Conservate Arizona
Papa Todd
Red State
Saddlebrook Republican Club
Seeing Red AZ
Sonoran Alliance
The Arizona News & Telegraph
The Cholla Jumps
Tucson Choices
Tucson Tea Party







Search for:




 Please feel free to contact us with your thoughts and ideas.

Get Connected
 Get Posts by RSS

Get Posts by Email
Your email: 

 By TwitterButtons.com

 Recent Posts

LIVE FROM FLORIDA — No One Except Ron Paul
Morning Briefing for September 12, 2011
PPP (D) Poll: Turner (R)/Welprin (D) 47/41 in NY-09.
Democrats: PASS THE SCHRODINGER’S JOB BILL!
NE PAChyderm Coalition meeting Wed. Sept. 14


Recent Comments
Ryan Adams on Western Free Press Poll: Who won the MSNBC Politico GOP Presidential DebateAzAdmin on If Nixon Could Go To China, Conservatives Can Save The PlanetDesert Messenger on Quartzsite elects new mayor in recall — or maybe notDave Franicis-Brittanicus on Illegal Aliens Receive $4.2 Billion in Additional Child Tax Creditskate on Speaker Boehner Responds To Obama










Elements of SEO is Powered by WordPress | Accessible Website Development - Alibi Productions
Copyright © 2011 by Morning in Arizona







