China to actively participate in international forestry cooperation


Eco-Friendly Tips





About Us
Eco-Friendly Bloggers
Advertising








China to actively participate in international forestry cooperation










BEIJING, China (Xinhua) — The Chinese government will continue to actively participate in international forestry cooperation on the basis of mutual respect, equal cooperation and benefits for all, Vice Premier Hui Liangyu said Wednesday.

Hui made the remark at the closing ceremony of the First APEC Meeting of Ministers Responsible for Forestry held in Beijing from Tuesday to Wednesday.
Hui said all APEC members should coordinate their efforts to enhance regional cooperation for “green growth.”
Hui said China will increase support to the Asia-Pacific Network for Sustainable Forest Management and Rehabilitation (APFNET). He expressed the country’s readiness to share its experiences and information with APEC members.



“China is ready to play an active role in advancing sustainable development of forests in the Asia-Pacific region,” Hui said.
The meeting passed the Beijing Forestry Declaration. The document will be submitted to APEC leaders at the Hawaii summit in November.
Chinese President Hu Jintao attended the opening ceremony of the meeting, which drew representatives from the 21 members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum and from other international organizations.  




No related posts.
	Tags: apec, apec members, asia pacific economic cooperation, asia pacific network, asia pacific region, beijing china, chinese government, chinese president hu, chinese president hu jintao, closing ceremony, hui liangyu, international forestry, mutual respect, opening ceremony, regional cooperation, sustainable forest management
POSTED BY Rokai on Sep 7 under Eco-friendly, Eco-friendly News




Comment























Ecofriendly Videos
      

Mission and Vision
Eco-Friendliness and 
Green Living are the 
two familiar words 
we hear of today. 
With our content we
aim to guide and enlighten
you on how it is to live
GREEN

Ecothreads - Eco-Friendly fashion, 100% Organic apparel that promotes environmentally friendly living. This is "Style we can LIVE with".

















    Custom Search
  


Natural Fiber Rugs
Area Rugs Online
0-60 Car Times
Bottleless Water Coolers

 

 Eco-friendly Tips Feed7 oil workers found alive in Gulf of MexicoDeath toll reaches 15,782 from great quake-tsunami in Japan6.0-magnitude quake hits VanuatuBlogroll

Aving Global News Network
Cardboard Recycling
Ecofriendly Resources
Organic Baby Products
Organic Makeup
Recycled Glassware
Recycled Mouse Mats
The Eco Luxe Life: Eco Shopping Made Easy











Tag cloud


clothes
global warming
eco
climate change
epicenter
barack obama
recycled materials
reuters
saving energy
global warning
carbon footprint
earth
ecofriendly
money
Recycling
christmas
Eco-friendly
lifestyle
environment
organic cotton
atmosphere
green
pr newswire
shopping
national hurricane center
mother earth
prnewswire
consumers
hurricane irene
tropical storm lee
Categories 
Alternative Energy (115)

Animals (64)

Appliances (49)

Climate Change (151)

Conservation (102)

Eco Business (136)

Eco Friendly Events (83)

Eco Gadgets (86)

Eco Toys (17)

Eco-Fashion (95)

Eco-friendly (1078)

Eco-friendly Books (6)

Eco-Friendly Careers (15)

Eco-friendly News (408)

Eco-friendly Vehicles (26)

Fuel (7)

Garbage and Waste (85)

Global Warning (121)

Green Gadgets (37)

Health and Fitness (70)

Lighting (27)

Organic (161)

Parenting (14)

Pollution (67)

Press Releases (30)

Recycling (192)

Solar Power (58)

Transportation (67)

Water (33)


Popular Searches

overfishing
ecofriendly
plywood christmas tree

Count per Day224515Total reads:1404Reads today:67454Total visitors:253Visitors today:7255Visitors per month:555Visitors per day:4Visitors currently online:Articles of Interestozone layerdrinking waterwood deckschangee wastePlugins for WordPress





Copyright Eco-Friendly Tips | Powered by WordPress | Using the GreenTech Theme




