lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2010 » December






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Friday, December 31, 2010
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2011!

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:45 pm 
 


In spite of the fact that I’ve featured him twice just in the past two weeks, I’ll continue my tradition of ringing out the old year and bringing in the new with a couple of New Year’s babies from J.C. Leyendecker, the American illustrator who started the practice of representing the new year as a baby (or, initially in his case, as a winged cherub) on the covers of the Saturday Evening Post.
I don’t have an enlargement of the New Year 1911 SEP cover (December 1910, above, top left), in which the baby new year greets not the old year, but Father Time. 
However, courtesy of Scott Anderson and his generous post here, we have a nice set of images of the original art from Leyendecker’s SEP cover ushering in 1926 (a year in which tax laws were changed and some tax rates reduced).
Another good excuse to display more of Leyendecker’s bravura brushwork.
Here is the Saturday Evening Post’s collection of their Leyendecker baby covers, and page 2.
For more on Leyendecker starting the tradition of representing the new year as a baby, see my post from 2006. I’ve listed links to my other Leyendecker posts, many of which have additional links and resources, below.
I hope you all have a terrific new year, filled with great art, old and new!
-Charley


Link: My previous posts on J.C. Leyendecker:
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2010
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2009
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2008
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year 2007
Happy Leyendecker Baby New Year (2006)
Even more Leyendecker wonderfulness, in high resolution no less
J.C. Leyendecker on Illustration Art
The Haggin Museum Leyendecker Collection
J.C. Leyendecker; America's "Other" Illustrator
More Leyendecker and other great stuff
A little Bit of Leyendecker Greatness
Illustrators' Visions of Santa Claus
Thanks
J.C. Leyendecker

Posted in:  Illustration   |   8 Comments »



Hendrick Avercamp and the “Little Ice Age”

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:11 pm 
 


So what to you do in the winter when the ground is covered in snow and the rivers are frozen over? Get out and enjoy of course.
Though we have other, more familiar names associated with 17th Century scenes of gatherings on the ice of frozen rivers and streams in Dutch towns (notably Bruegel), Avercamp was the first to specialize in the subject, effectively making it into a genre. 
Avercamp was born in Amsterdam but grew up in Kampen, on the river IJssel. He returned to Amsterdam to study and apprentice to the portrait painter Pieter Isacqs. He also apparently absorbed influence from Flemish landscape painters who were present in Amsterdam at the time, but overall his style was unique and somewhat idiosyncratic.
Historical records indicate that Avercamp was deaf and could not speak. After his time in Amsterdam he returned to Kampen and specialized in his winter ice scenes.
This was at a time, sometimes dubbed the “Little Ice Age” when the winters were so severe that the creeks, canals and even rivers in Europe and North America froze solidly enough to support walking, skating and winter festivals. The waterways became, in effect, a different kind of town square.
I love these scenes, they seem to give us a glimpse of everyday life and people from the time. Avercamp made a point of portraying the mix of classes and levels of society that mingled on the ice, with their accordingly different modes of dress, parading in their finery, skating, working or indulging in winter sports. 
In the painting above, bottom, with detail (larger version here), he has emphasized the difference between the upperclass gentleman playing colf, a predecessor of golf in which the object was to hit a ball to a pole in as few strokes as possible, and a fisherman and (presumably) his son, who look on with interest.
This was pointed out in an excellent online feature from the National Gallery in Washington, which had a show of Avercamp’s work titled Hendrick Avercamp: The Little Ice Age, back in the summer of this year (sorry I missed it) and at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam before that. The online features are still accessible, however.
There are other sources for Avercamp’s work. notably Wikimedia Commons, which has reproductions large enough to see some of the fascinating details Avercamp has worked into his scenes. 
His renditions of the towns buildings and bridges, sometimes specific, sometimes imaginary, are also interesting, as is his atmospheric evocation of the winter season in the “Little Ice Age”.


Link: Hendrick Avercamp on Wikimedia Commons
Hendrick Avercamp: The Little Ice Age, NGA, ended July, 2010
NGA Slideshow, bio, works in collection
Rijksmuseum
Web Gallery of Art
Museum Syndicate
Ciudad de la pintura
ARC
National Gallery, London
Artcyclopedia (museum links and resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   5 Comments »


Thursday, December 30, 2010
Illustration Magazine Archives, Online Free in Fullscreen

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:40 pm 
 


Wow.
I’ve raved before about Dan Zimmer’s beautifully edited, produced and printed Illustration Magazine. 
Devoted to classic illustration, this magazine is, in a way, more like a series of short books, with in-depth, profusely illustrated articles about great illustrators. 
While most magazines are stingy about putting their precious content online, Zimmer has made every issue of the 31 printed so far available in their entirety, online, to be read for free in full-screen. 
Go to the archives, select an issue, and you’re presented with an illustrated table of contents for that issue. Click on the cover of the issue in the grey box at the bottom of the page and the magazine is displayed for you in the Issu online magazine reader, with page thumbnails at the bottom, and even the ability to zoom in to an extent (the row of dots below the thumbnails leads to additional thumbnails, the issues are long).
First I will give my Major Time Sink Warning, this is a dazzling array of great illustrators, and the articles are well worth reading; they are in-depth, well researched and well written.
Secondly, I will again point out that even the relatively high (for on-screen) resolution here does not really do these images justice compared to the way they look printed at genuine high resolution in the magazine. If you pick up an issue or two you’ll see what I mean. The current issue features J. Frederick Smith, John Fleming Gould and Clark Hulings (see my post on Clark Hulings).
But still,… wow.
[Via Dave Gibbons]


Link: www.illustration-magazine.com/archive.html
www.illustration-magazine.com
My previous posts about Illustration Magazine:
Illustration Magazine and Illo
Andrew Loomis in Illustration Magazine
Dean Cornwell in Illustration Magazine
Gustav Tenggren in Illustration 21
Illustration 30

Posted in:  Illustration   |   4 Comments »


Wednesday, December 29, 2010
Wil Freeborn

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:40 pm 
 


Wil Freeborn is a graphic designer and illustrator based in Glasgow, Scotland.
Though his professional portfolio focuses on his (quite nice) graphic design rather than illustration, his blog features a number of wonderful sketches.
These are of a variety of subjects — cafe and store interiors, schoolrooms, townscapes, landscapes and a particularly nice series of people working on a steam locomotive (also here). There are also life drawings and pantings and a few other projects mixed in. 
Most of his sketches appear to be in pencil and watercolor in the pages of Moleskine sketchbooks. They combine the informal, loose qualities of travel sketches with clear observation and occasionally more elaborate rendering in watercolor.


Link: www.wilfreeborn.co.uk
Portfolio

Posted in:  Sketching,Watercolor and Gouache   |   6 Comments »


Monday, December 27, 2010
Jake Baddeley

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:57 pm 
 


Jake Baddeley gives little information about himself on his website, save to call himself a symbolist painter and artist.
Looking through his work, I see classical training, influences from the Surrealists and Magic Realists, and a fascination with the art and invention of the Renaissance. 
He uses a muted, controlled palette, with passages of restrained but rich color, and his compositions often have feeling of deliberately arranged tableaux, with questions posed and hints of meaning scattered  through the subjects. Often there are objects floating, either in frozen motion or defiance of gravity, and repeated themes of masks, blindfolds and curtains, suggesting subliminal meaning.
The paintings on his website are arranged by year,  the sections for which provide a click-through navigation of Next and Previous, though there are no thumbnails. In addition there is a gallery of drawings in the “Other work” section.
You can also find a selection of his paintings on the Ten Dreams Gallery in an arrangement that more readily gives an overview of his work. There are also galleries of his paintings on the beinArt Surreal Art Collective and the imaginary realism art print site.
Prints of his work are also available directly through his web shop. Editions of a book called Dreamscapes, that feature a number of artists, including Baddeley in the 2009 and 2010 volumes, are available from both his shop and the imaginary realism site.


Link: www.jakebaddeley.com
Ten Dreams Gallery
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
imaginary realism

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


Sunday, December 26, 2010
Winter snows from George Gardner Symons

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:55 pm 
 


For those in the U.S. and Europe digging out, or still being covered in the titanium whites and cobalt blues of winter precipitation, I’ll relay a gentle reminder from American artist George Gardner Symons, noted for his beautiful winter scenes, that yes, snow can be beautiful, and yes, it eventually melts, and yes, Spring will indeed come back some day.
For more, including links to image resources, see my previous post on George Gardner Symons.


Link: My previous post on George Gardner Symons

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Saturday, December 25, 2010
Adoration of the Shepherds, Charles Le Brun

Posted by Charley Parker at 1:00 am 
 


Charles Le Brun was a major figure in 17th Century French Painting. Here, in his Adoration of the Shepherds (also here), he displays his skill with composition, color and light, using them to gently guide our eye through several aspects of a complex scene.
The immediate focus, of course, is on the mother and child, their illuminated figures accented by the darkened silhouettes of the foreground figures. Our eye then sweeps upward with the rising smoke, through the curves of the angelic banner and out into the heavens which have opened into our scene. When we settle back into the foreground, we have a wealth of other figures, earthly and etherial, on which to focus in turn.
Le Brun’s rich blues and deep orange-reds balance and complement each other beautifully, reinforcing the path of our eye and giving the painting a lively, vibrant character overall. 


Link: Adoration of the Shepards on WGA
On Wikimedia Commons

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Friday, December 24, 2010
Walt Kelly’s A Visit from St. Nicholas

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:29 pm 
 


The brilliant Walt Kelly, one time Disney artist and creator, artist and writer of Pogo, one of the greatest comic strips aver produced, at one point turned his hand to an interpretation (it you want to call it that) of Clement Moore’s familiar Christmas poem, A Visit From St. Nicholas, which many small children know by its first line, ”Twas the night before Christmas”.
In Kelly’s delightfully loopy version, infused with a bit of political satire for its time, the poem starts:
‘Twas the night before Xmas,
When all through the moon
Not a creature was stirring
Not even a spoon;
and goes on from there to get silly.
Roger Ebert, the jolly old soul, has gifted us with a reprinting of Kelly’s comic strip with Pogo and Albert dashing through their version of the story, and has included high-resolution images (click on the ones in the column) with which we can find extra holiday cheer in Kelly’s beautiful pen and ink lines.
[Via Escape into Life]


Link: 'Twas the Night Before Pogo, on Roger Ebert's Journal, Chicago Sun-Times
Pogo official site
My post on Walt kelly

Posted in:  Comics   |   8 Comments »



More Haddon Sundblom Santas

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:41 pm 
 


Despite the inaccurate claims made by Coca-Cola for a number of years (they have since modified their story), and some confusion from other quarters, American illustrator Haddon Sundblom did not create the look of Santa Claus as we know him.
That story is a bit less than straightforward and involves a number of other illustrators, including Thomas Nast, J.C. Leyendecker, Reginald Birch, Norman Rockwell and others (see my post on Illustrators’ Visions of Santa Claus).
However, Sunblom, one of the great illustrators of the early 20th Century, refined the image of the character to his most recognizable form. Sundblom’s series of Santa illustrations for Coca-Cola ads, that ran from 1931 to 1964, gave us the quintessential modern interpretation of the Jolly One.
The Coca-Cola page has a selection of some of the images and the Coca-Cola Art blog has another page here, both with links to larger versions. An even better resource is the post on Golden Age Comic Book Stories, with many of the Sunblom Santas in one place (again, click for larger images). There is also a post on KoiKoiKoi.
Leif Peng has an excellent post on Sunny’s Santa on his blog Today’s Inspiration, and has a wealth of other posts on Haddon Sundblom. (Note: some of them include Sundblom’s pin-up illustrations, which can be mildly NSFW.)
See also my previous posts on Haddon Sundbom and Haddon Sundblom’s Santa Claus Illustrations.
I wouldn’t mind a lump of coal in my Christmas stocking if it was painted by Haddon Sundblom.


Link: Coca-Cola and Santa Claus
Coca-Cola Santa Claus: Coke Christmas Art by Haddon Sundblom
Haddon Sundblom on Golden Age Comic Book Stories
KoiKoiKoi
Sunny's Santa on Today's Inspiration
My previous posts:
Haddon Sundblom
Haddon Sundblom's Santa Claus Illustrations
Illustrator's Visions of Santa Claus

Posted in:  Illustration   |   5 Comments »


Thursday, December 23, 2010
Wikimedia Commons

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:00 pm 
 


No, it doesn’t have anything to do with WikiLeaks, but Wikimedia Commons is related to another familiar Wiki based phenomenon, Wikipedia, in that both are projects of the Wikimedia Foundation. 
(A wiki, by the way, is simply a kind of website, specifically, a potentially collaborative website created with wiki software, that allows for contribution, editing and administration by people with no knowledge of HTML.)
Wikimedia Commons is the Wikimedia Foundation’s online free-use media resource, containing over 7,000,000 media files — sound, video and of course, images.
Among the images are an increasingly large number of art related images — paintings, drawings, etchings, engravings and the like. It has become one of the larger art image repositories on the web (see my posts on The Athenaeum, ArtMagick, AllPaintings, The Web Gallery of Art and The Art Renewal Center). You may have noticed links to Wikimedia Commons among the links provided with a number of my articles about artists from history.
You can use the search feature at the top of every Wikimedia Commons page to look for a specific artist, of course, but one of the nice things about the arrangement of the material is that it enables a certain kind of browsing, one conducive to discovering artists and works that may be new to you.
An initial search for “paintings“, for example, brings up a page that provides access other category listings, such as Paintings by artist, Paintings by city, country, period, medium, subject, technique, and even Paintings by museum. 
One of the most productive to my mind is the “Paintings by date” category, and from that landing, “Paintings by century“.
Here it’s easy to narrow down, for example into 19th century paintings. At this level, you’ll be presented with a number of thumbnails for a variety of paintings from the century, a sort of skim through some of that century’s artists, and a further breakdown into decades. Here is where I like to browse, by choosing a decade, for instance, 1880s paintings.
Though there are further breakdowns at that level, into individual years, the thumbnails for a given decade present a nicely varied selection of works to view by a variety of artists. Though hardly comprehensive, it makes for a fun way to explore and sample a selection of works by artists both familiar and not.
The images above, for example, all were represented on the 1880s paintings page as thumbnails, from the top: James Tissot, Henryk Hector Siemiradzki, Carl Spitzweg, Aleksandr Novoskoltsev, Vincent van Gogh, Willem de Zwart, John Singer Sargent, Jules-Eugé Lenepveu, Ilya Repin, Jean-Léon Gérôme, Edouard Manet and William Merritt Chase.
Once on the page for an individual work you can sometimes (though not always) click through a linked mention of the artist’s name into a page of works specifically by that artist, for example, William Merritt Chase.
The possibilities for discovering artists are extensive.
I’ll give my usual Major Timesink Warning for resources this large and potentially engrossing.
Enjoy!


Link: http://commons.wikimedia.org
The page about Wikimedia Commons on Wikipedia

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Online Museums   |   1 Comment »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






