Bandcamp







blog
faq
features
pricing
log in




Artists: sell your music & merch directly to your fans.

Sign up now
(yep, it's free)


In the past 30 days alone, artists have made 
            $783,672 
            USD using Bandcamp, and monthly sales growth since our launch 
            looks like this:


            To find out why forward thinkers like 
            Sufjan Stevens,
            Amanda Palmer, and
            Zoë Keating
            call Bandcamp home sweet home, watch this:
            
            






Heartening factoids:

On Bandcamp, albums outsell tracks 5 to 1 (in the rest
                of the music buying world, tracks outsell albums 16 to 1).
On name-your-price albums, fans pay an average of 50%
                more than whatever you set as your minimum.
We've driven 1,410,688 paid transactions and served 18,733,148 downloads to happy fans.




I've always tried to be as directly connected with fans as possible, but until
        you guys came along, the actual facilitation and sales-element of the 
        infrastructure was much more difficult. Bandcamp brings the whole picture together into a very lovely package that not only
        works, but works WELL. Me and my team made more in one night than I've seen to
        date from my 2008 (major-label) album.
Amanda Palmer

Bandcamp is the best thing that's happened to music in the last 5 years. I find myself using Bandcamp almost exclusively as my website these days. Being able to set my own prices, and not those chosen by a corporate hive-mind, is great. The staff is helpful and responsive, and getting paid immediately via PayPal is soooo much better than waiting months for a check savagely slashed by 30%. It's always encouraging to see the Cha-Ching emails roll in, especially with how many people pay more than I ask for! Bandcamp has made it so much easier to make a living off of music, and I can't wait to see what new features lie in wait!
danny B

(from a fan writing to an artist)
        Subject: Awesome
            I heard of the Cuban Cowboys this morning on NPR and liked the music,
            so I listened to more at your site and loved it so much I bought two
            copies of your CD. I love rock and I love
            Cuban, Mexican, and Spanish music and find your music to be
            refreshingly excellent. Thank you for:
            
Allowing me to listen to the whole CD before purchasing
            Giving me that many choices of downloadable music (I rip all my CDs
            to FLAC, so that is great), especially the open and non-drm formats
            Letting me download the music right away even though I opted to
            purchase the CD
            Making the whole site experience work perfectly in Linux
            
I don't write letters often for things like this, but I was so pleased
            with your site and music I had to let you know.

            I wish more musicians would distribute their music like you do. Keep
            making awesome music :) -Andrew

Subject: Just a fan!
            Just wanted you guys to know that you are seriously a godsend for
            musicians trying to spread awareness of their music with dignity. 
            I have
            made it my mission to personally recommend any and all bands/musicians I
            know to sign up for bandcamp accounts. I seriously can't say enough good
            things about the site. LOVE IT! LOVE IT! LOVE IT!
Jacoby

I discovered your site a couple weeks ago when Sufjan released the All
            Delighted People EP. At that time, I downloaded the EP without really thinking much
            about the website I was on; the process was very fluid and the site did a
            good job of facilitating my purchase without getting in the way. I
            discovered the site anew today while researching a small artist who, I
            learned, has a Bandcamp page.  Impressed by the page design and especially
            the full-track streams, I did some poking around to figure out what exactly
            Bandcamp is. The conclusion I came to is that Bandcamp is nothing short of
            the future of digital music distribution.

            You see, I spend a lot of money on music and I worry a lot about where that
            money goes.  When I buy an album digitally on Amazon, how much of my money
            goes to Amazon, how much to the label, and how much actually reaches the
            artist?  I always wonder.  A few times I've simply thrown up my hands in
            frustration and decided that it's impossible to know which mode of purchase
            will most greatly benefit the artist, which is why I've settled on Amazon --
            it's the most straightforward and seamless for me, the consumer.  That
            said, Bandcamp blows Amazon out of the water.  Hands down.  No clunky
            downloader, no frustrating searches for the right artist, album, or song.
             Your artist page design is wonderful in its simplicity, and I completely
            agree with your philosophy about how important it is to allow customers to
            hear music before they buy it.  I cannot think of any way that I could have
            a simpler or more satisfying experience as a customer.  And most important
            is your transparency about the cut you take.  I think the cut is a perfectly reasonable amount for the service
            you provide.  It's not just reasonable, it's a great deal for the artist. -Andrew Smith

Subject: Just thank you
            I just wanted to write to say that I love you, you make my life 
            better, your interface is fabulous for me and for my customers, and I 
            hope that you live long and prosper. I talk about you to anyone who 
            will listen, and I hope to start doing physical merch fulfillment with 
            you soon because you're awesome. That's all.
Marian Call

Subject: Your website is AWESOME.
            I went from having no account, to having WAV (!) uploaded, paypal setup, and
            a sweet looking page in like FIVE minutes. I am absolutely astounded at the
            level of features that you guys offer, how easy your site is to use, how
            good the pages look, etc, etc, etc.
        
            I am recommending your site to all my friends (several of whom are pretty
            well-known independent musicians). Keep up the great work!
Nathan Walker


            Bandcamp is simple, smart, easy-to-use and gives independent artists the next-to-free, worldwide distribution that they have always deserved. 
Judgement Day


            I wanted to send a quick thank you for all the amazing things you do. 
            I still can't believe how ridiculously easy it is to make a great 
            looking store that's user friendly and even full of personality.  Some 
            random people have found my band through your home page "here are some 
            of the bands that use bandcamp" area and purchased our music on that 
            click-thru. Wow!!
        
            Again, thank you thank you thank you and keep rocking it.
        
            Your Friends,
Amy & Nick


            I can't tell you enough how much I LOVE YOUR SERVICE. I have gotten about 6 other bands on it
            including PHANTASM, who are really kicking up dust in Philly right now. I just wanted to tell you all again I LOVE BANDCAMP I would gladly pay to use this service FOREVER!
        
            there is just no comparison to giving people a simple page
            to listen to and buy your music. There's no clutter, no ads, no fluff.
            Thanks again. I really could not have released my album the way I WANTED TO
            without Bandcamp.
Dereck


            I love it that the landing page IS the music, the albums themselves, because
            people click "Play" almost immediately when they see the button. Thank you
            for your service, it is seriously one of the coolest ever, the fact that it
            has no advertisements getting shoved down our listener's throats is also a
            huge plus. um, ok, no more to say, just
            heaps of praises!
Cristal Marie


(writing to a fan who inquired about his site)
            Hey Tyson,
        
            I'm glad to hear you're diggin the tunes :) But yea, I host through a template based site called bandcamp. They're absolutely amazing. While I took and formatted all the
            photography that fills the site layout, it's simply a set template, which
            with a little work, can be made to look rather sexy. Bandcamp, simply put,
            is the shit. It'll easily put your music into the hands of anyone who wants
            it.
            Stay real,
Joe Hertler


            I was just introduced to this site! This is AMAZING! Thank you so much 
            for creating something like this!
            You guys make life so much easier for musicians to organize their band page, and make it look neat!
Simon

Subject: Amazing!
            I just discovered Bandcamp today and I have to say it's a revelation. 
            I don't have a band but I have been working in the music industry 
            throughout latin america for over 10 years and I've spent the past 
            hour sending my friends (who do have bands and are now mostly 
            independent because of the recession) from Argentina, Colombia, 
            Venezuela, Chile, Mexico, Jamaica, Norway and the UK a link to your 
            web page. I think YOU will be the answer to the recurrent question, 
            which direction will the music industry take now?
            
            All the best!
            
            Cynthia
        

            Your website is bloody fantastic. Simple, intuitive, no gamut of rubbish everywhere advertising nonsense, just a clean, simple and effective layout. The amount of options for downloads/sales/promotion is incredible.
            Sorry if you were expecting a whingy 'help me!' email, just wanted to express my affections, and say thanks for providing such an awesome service!
Simon Mather

I don't ever write in
            to things like this, but I have been waiting for a way to promote my music
            using a clean interface and not a bunch of nonsense features and your site
            was exactly what I was looking for. Keep up the great work, I appreciate my
            music's new home on the web!
Conor Hanrahan, aka. Chill The Ill Poet

I do not often bother to write emails of praise to people who I have never
            met, but I felt compelled to tell you that Bandcamp is utterly brilliant. In
            an age where everybody is talking about music in anxious business terms, you
            have managed to freshen the whole thing up. You've brought the spirit of the
            DIY ethic, fused it with University-level lecture material on current trends
            in the music industry, and provided a logical, smart interface for musical
            communion. In short, you've made it easy for new independent music to grow
            and continue to flourish.
            
            Bandcamp, I salute you!
Rory


            At last, a website truly for recording artists that works flawlessly, 
            AND is beautiful in its layout and presentation. I can't thank you 
            enough. SUPERKUDOS!
Don Swanson

more, lots more…



Fans: discover new music and directly support the artists who make it.



            Explore 2,468,395 tracks and 306,959
            albums from artists spanning 183 countries:
        

search




browse by genre:

hip-hop
rock
pop
indie
electronic
rap
folk
alternative
ambient
soul
electronica
acoustic
jazz
more…



browse by location:

California
United Kingdom
New York
Canada
Washington
Los Angeles
Texas
Illinois
Germany
more…



top sellers of late:




#1
Bastion Original Soundtrack
Darren Korb





#2
APORIA: IN THESE §TREETS
::M∆DE:IN:HEIGHTS::





#3
Zelda Step
Ephixa





#4
Something Fierce
Marian Call





#5
Soul Searching
Ricky Kendall





music we love:



Inlet Sound



Ariya Astrobeat Arkestra



The Haggis Horns



TJ KONG + THE ATOMIC BOMB



Triobelisk



IN MEDIAS RES


an artifact of note:




Get It Together
Sola Rosa








Bandcamp


artist login
terms of use
privacy
copyright policy

  



            
        












