lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2008 » July






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Thursday, July 31, 2008
Brian Blood

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:44 am 
 


When I first encountered the paintings of California plein air painter Brian Blood on the site of the Jones and Terwilliger Galleries, it was in compositions that brought to mind the work of pioneering California Impressionist Granville Redmond, who reveled in the intense colors of the California poppy fields around the turn of the 20th Century.
Apparently, those fields are still in evidence in parts of the California countryside, giving Blood the opportunity to fill some of his canvasses with brilliant splays of color against verdant hills. 
On viewing the extensive portfolio on his own site, I found his direct painterly approach applied to scenes of the rocky California coastline, particularly in places with those wonderfully shaped Cypress trees with horizontally extended crowns, as well as other views of California hills, valleys and mountains.
When viewing the work on his site, you can click to enlarge one of the images and then continue to click through in the larger versions (actually, the middle-size images are superfluous in this age of large monitors and fast connections).
If you go deeply enough into the series of works, you’ll find very nice on location paintings of various places in Paris, as well as a few still life paintings that are often composed in the theatrical glow of a table lamp.  
Blood’s early career was as an illustrator and graphic designer. He transitioned into gallery painting about 17 years ago and has been a participant in numerous plein air organizations and events. He also taught for over ten years in the Fine Art Department of Academy of Art University, and currently leads workshops and advanced workshops in plein air painting at several locations in California.
His work has been featured in Southwest Art, Art of the West, Artists Magazine, Coast Magazine and American Artist.


Link: http://brianblood.com
Jones & Terwilliger Galleries
K. Nathan Gallery
Westbrook Galleries
The Garden Gallery

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   1 Comment »


Wednesday, July 30, 2008
Matthias Lechner

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:08 am 
 


Matthias Lechner is a German born art director, production designer and visual development artist living and working in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
He is currently Art Director for a 3-D feature from Vangard animation called Space Chimps, but what I found most fascinating in his online galleries are the production and design drawings for a range of European (I think mostly German and Belgian) films that have unfortunately not made their way “across the pond”. 
These mey be more familiar to European readers than they are to me, and include titles like Little Dodo (above, top), The Little Polarbear 2, Laura’s Star, Derrick (above, bottom), Globi and the Stolen Shadows, Troll-Story and Help, I’m as Fish, as well as several television productions.
Lechner’s monochromatic drawings for these are nothing short of wonderful. Mostly environments and backgrounds, they are simultaneously lush with detail and beautifully free, sharing the characteristics of a finished tone painting and a sketch.
His control of value and texture give these wash drawings an ability to evoke a place, atmosphere and time of day that could hardly be improved on by the addition of color. Lechner wields his monochromatic “palette” with uncanny aplomb. You will find a bit of color work for one of his productions; but as nicely handled as those pieces are, I don’t miss the color when looking through the rest of his portfolio.
What strikes me most is his ability to completely master the particular environment he is constructing; whether thick jungle foliage, craggy seacoast rocks, undersea pools lit by shafts of sunlight or the rich architectural details of European cities.
[Link via Man Arenas (see my previous post on Dodecaden/Man Arenas)]


Link: www.matthiaslechner.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.   |   6 Comments »


Tuesday, July 29, 2008
Giovanni Bellini

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:51 am 
 


Those who think they don’t like dusty old Renaissance paintings of religious scenes (and I’m talking to you, visual development artists and contemporary landscape painters) might find themselves delightfully surprised if they took time to investigate some of the Renaissance painters more closely.
I don’t usually devote this much space to images by an individual painter, but every once in a while I like to put up a wake up call and draw attention to artists from the past who I think are less well known than they should be. 
There are astonishingly great painters in the history of art that go relatively unnoticed because they are eclipsed by the brighter stars of better known figures. One of these is the late Fifteenth, early Sixteenth Century Venetian painter Giovanni Bellini.
Bellini was on the cusp of several shifting paradigms, the shift from Gothic revival painting to the first flowering of the Renaissance, the shift from egg tempera to the remarkable new medium of oil painting (see my post on Rogier van der Weyden); and the adoption by painters of new ways of handling color and atmosphere, new methods of modeling the human face and form and new approaches to the representation of landscape, all of which were in part related to his experimentation and influence.
Bellini is considered the founder of the Venetian school of painting, and instrumental in the elevation of art from that city to a status in league with Rome and Florence, no small feat. His father, Jacopo Bellini, was an artist and one of the founders of the Renaissance style of painting. His brother, Gentile Bellini became a noted painter and official portrait artist of the Doges of Venice; and his brother in law was the painter Andrea Mantegna, quite a family. 
Even in his early work in tempera, Bellini strove to convey the characteristics of natural light in the background landscapes of his paintings. Landscape as an art in itself would not really appear for centuries, but within the context of his religious themed paintings, Bellini was one of the great landscape artists. He brought to his landscapes, and to his figures and faces, a higher degree of realism and skillful modeling than his immediate predecessors and most of his contemporaries.
He experimented with the new medium of oil paint to great effect, achieving rich glowing passages of of color in layered glazes that paved the way for the painters of the High Renaissance who would follow.
He was also instrumental in introducing elements and techniques from the early masters of the Northern Renaissance to Venetian painting and Italian painting in general. Durer visited Bellini in Venice, and in 1506 wrote of him “He is very old, and still he is the best painter of them all.”
Giovanni Bellini became the official painter of the Venetian Republic (Venice was at the time an independent city-state), and the master of its most prestigious school; but his accomplishments were eventually outshone by those of his remarkable students Giorgione and, in particular, Titian.
The image at top, with a detail below it, is St Francis in the Desert, sometimes called St. Francis in Ecstasy. It is in the Frick Collection in New York, and it is quite amazing. The Frick web site has a zoomable version of this image, along with a selection of detail images which show fascinating details like a rabbit emerging from his burrow, just under St Francis’ outstretched right hand (the painting is full of understated religious symbolism).
The image at bottom left is a Portrait of Doge Loenardo Loredan, then Doge of Venice, and is  remarkable not only for its realistic portrayal and the powerful presence of the face, but the beautiful rendering of his intricate garment.
Third down and with a detail at bottom right is Madonna and Child with Two Saints (detail here, click for enlarged version in each case), which shows Bellini’s beautiful naturalistic rendering of faces, where he has incorporated lessons learned form his contemporary Antonello da Messina, and is approaching the style of the High Renaissance.
There are many resources on the web for Giovani Bellini (and deservedly so), and I urge you to spend a few minutes exploring his wonderfully strange compositions, his remarkably rich and human portraits and the astonishing intricacies of his sculptural landscapes. 
Look in particular at the resources where large reproductions of his images can be found, like WGA, ARC, and the individual museum listings, which often have zoomable images.
(My comment in the first paragraph about visual development artists and contemporary landscape painters who think they don’t like Renaissance painting only applies to a few, of course, but I wanted to specifically get their attention. One of my main goals with Lines and Colors is to get people to cross boundaries and discover treasures they’ve been missing.)


Link: Giovanni Bellini on Web Gallery of Art
ARC
GalleryofArt.us
CGFA
Ciudad de la pintura
Webmuseum
Wikipedia
Artcyclopedia (museum listings and web resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Monday, July 28, 2008
Antonio Javier Caparo

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:56 am 
 


Antonio Caparo is a Cuban born illustrator currently living and working in Toronto, Canada. 
Caparo studied graphic design at the High Institute of Design in Havana and devoted much of his early career to design, but gradually sifted his focus to illustration. 
He has a muscular, energetic style that uses texture and tonal contrast to make his images pop off the page. They are at once realistically dimensional and freely stylized, sometimes in a cartoon-like direction. The result is a visual charm that immediately draws you in, and invites you to linger over the image.
He often opts for a muted palette and dark base tones, allowing him to give theatrical emphasis to key elements with passages of more intense color and lighter values.
Caparo’s images are often accented not only with textural variety, but with visual extras, incidental characters and little details.
I’ve found little information about his overall technique, but I know that some of his images are digitally painted, if only from their presence in his gallery on CGSociety.
There is also a Antonio Javier Caparo gallery on the new Tor Books site that I mentioned in a recent post, and a more extensive one on Shannon Associates, along with a brief bio.
Caparo has also done some comics work, notably for the American version of Heavy Metal magazine, and apparently still keeps his hand in as a graphic designer.
Outside of the online galleries mentioned above, Caparo doesn’t appear to have dedicated web site, but he started a blog just last month. 
His latest book illustration project is The Magic Thief by Sarah Prineas, for which he created characters, places, animals, decorations, a typeface and maps for both the book and an interactive minisite devoted to the book on the Harper Collins site.


Link: www.antoniocaparo.com (blog)
Portfolio on Shannon Associates (note multiple pages of thumbnails)
Gallery on CGSociety
Gallery on Tor.com

Posted in:  Comics,Digital Painting,Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Sunday, July 27, 2008
John Watkiss

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:31 am 
 


John Watkiss has created visual development art for films like Disney’s Tarzan, Treasure Planet, Atlantis: The Lost Empire, Fantasia 2000, Skycaptain and the World of Tomorrow and the proposed Sandman. In his movie related career he has done work for Twentieth Century Fox, Dreamworks, Francis Ford Coppola and Ridley Scott Associates.
Watkiss has also had a career as a comic book artist, doing covers and interiors for D.C., Marvel and UK publishers on titles like Batman, Conan, Deadman and Sandman.
If that isn’t enough, Watkiss also is a gallery artist. His subjects are frequently images of women painted in a modern style but in costume and compositions influenced by Victorian painting.
You can see a mixture of his film development and gallery work on his blog, though not much of the work for comics. There are unofficial galleries of his comics work on ComicArtFans and Comic Art Community.
On his blog, there are some visual development paintings for a prospective Sandman movie on this page. Despite the huge red “SOLD” across some of them, clicking on them still takes you to viewable images (image above, bottom).
Watkiss has taught anatomy and other art subjects at Royal College of Art in London, as well as other schools. He is the author of several books on anatomy. These don’t seem to be available through the usual online bookstores, but can be ordered directly from the sidebar of Watkiss’ blog. Watkiss has a drawing approach that combines fluid linework with strong underlying geometry, reminiscent of George Bridgeman or Andrew Loomis. Students of figure construction may see a similarity to Burne Hogarth as well.
The books had a dedicated site at one time, and there was also a site devoted to his gallery art, but he seems to have dropped those in favor of the bog.
There is still a site dedicated to his gallery art, a different one, The Works of John Watkiss at seventhsealproductions.com, I don’t know if it is directly connected to Watkiss or not. Here you will find his Pre-Raphaelite influenced paintings of women in (and out of) classical gowns and idyllic settings. These are my favorites of his, in which subjects and styles we are used to seeing  rendered with a high degree of finish are given a lighter, more gestural approach.
There is a YouTube video of a “Levi’s spec ad featuring John Watkiss” that Marcel Duchamp fans in particular may find amusing.
A new solo exhibition of Watkiss’ work from all three aspects of his career opens on August 2nd and runs to August 10, 2008 at Gallery Nucleus in Alhambra, California. 


Link: http://johnwatkiss.blogspot.com
Solo exhibition at Gallery Nucleus (8/2/08- 8/10/08)
The Works of John Watkiss
Gallery on Comic Art Fans
Gallery on Comic Art Community
 "Levi's spec ad featuring John Watkiss"
Bio on Lambiek.net
Bio on Wikipedia
Blog post on Harald Siepermann
Progressive Anatomy on Stuart NG Books
John Watkiss on Amazon

Posted in:  Comics,Concept & Visual Dev.,Gallery and Museum Art   |   6 Comments »


Friday, July 25, 2008
Exquisite Visions of Japan

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:13 pm 
 


The Blanton Museum of Art, part of the University of Texas at Austin, is currently showing  Exquisite Visions of Japan, which is an exhibition of Japanese woodblock prints from the James A. Michener Collection of the Honolulu Academy of Arts.
Though the online image gallery on the museum’s site is minimal, it provides a nice jumping off point for revisiting some of the extraordinary Japanese woodblock print artists I’ve written about before, including Hiroshi Yoshida, Kawase Hasui, Katsushika Hokusai and  Ito Shinsui; as well as looking for links for some artists I have not yet written about, like Utagawa Hiroshige, Hiratsuka Unichi, Okumura Masanobu, Katsukawa Shunsho and Kitagawa Utamaro.
Many of these artists are associated with the genre known as Ukiyo-e, or pictures of the “floating world”. (As I mentioned in my post on a recent exhibit of work from the Utagawa School at the Brooklyn Museum, the “floating world” is not what you might think on first hearing the term.) Others are associated with the “shin hanga” or “new print” movement. 
These artists were tremendously influential on European artists in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries, particularly the Impressionists and others like Whistler.
Unfortunately, my knowledge of the history and relationship of these artists and their times is frustratingly minimal. You will also have to forgive me if I am inconsistent in the order in which I use the artist’s family and given names, as this varies in listings and the naming conventions are unfamiliar enough that I’m never quite clear about which is which.
I do know that some of these works are among the most beautiful prints I’ve ever encountered. Particular favorites of mine are those of Hiroshi Yoshida and Kawase Hasui.
(Image above: Okumura Masanobu, Utagawa Hiroshige, Hiroshi Yoshida)
[Link via Art Knowledge News]


Link: Exquisite Visions of Japan at the Blanton Museum of Art (to August 24, 2008)

My previous posts:
Hiroshi Yoshida
Kawase Hasui
Katsushika Hokusai
Ito Shinsui
Utagawa School

Some links for other artists I have not written about yet:
Utagawa Hiroshige (Ando Hiroshige)
Hiratsuka Unichi
Okumura Masanobu
Katsukawa Shunsho
Kitagawa Utamaro

Posted in:  Prints and Printmaking   |   1 Comment »


Thursday, July 24, 2008
Shino Arihara

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:47 am 
 


Shino Arihara’s often deceptively simple illustrations are usually in service of a concept, illustrating not only a particular article or story, but the underlying idea.
However, as is often the case for me when viewing the work of illustrators, I find some of her most interesting work is among her personal pieces, unrestrained by the demands of publishing.
Arihara’s illustrations appear to be painted in gouache. Her brief bio page doesn’t mention anything about technique or medium. It does tell us, however, that her clients include L.A. Weekly, The Boston Globe, The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine, among others.
Her work has been included in American Illustration, Spectrum and illustration annuals for Communications Arts, which also featured an interview with her in the October, 2007 issue. She is also the recipient of a Bronze Medal from the Society of Illustrators. 
In addition to her editorial work, Arihara has illustrated books like Ceci Ann’s Day of Why by Christopher Phillips, and A Song for Cambodia by Michelle Lord.
One of the characteristics of her work that I find most appealing is her use of the texture of the paint as a pictorial element, particularly in backgrounds or large areas of color in which the paint not only keeps, but emphatically declares, its identity as paint, without losing its role in conveying the image.
Arihara often keeps her palette restrained, choosing muted, neutralized colors accented by stronger hued passages and enlivened with those wonderful paint textures.


Link: www.shinoillustration.com
On Gerald & Cullen Rapp (representatives)
On iSpot

Posted in:  Illustration   |   Comments »



Philadelphia City Paper Comic Competition

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:09 am 
 


For those who would like a little exposure for their comics in the Philadelphia area, Philadelphia City Paper has posted an open invitation for cartoonists and illustrators to submit their comics for the weekly paper’s Second Annual Comics Issue.
All submissions will be posted on the paper’s web site, and editors picks will be published in the August 14th issue.
As their little bit of self-deprecating humor points out, they get free comics and you get “exposure”. Take it as you will.
Artists can submit Quarter Pages (4.875 x 4.875) or Half Pages (9.875 x 4.875) to:
comicsissue@citypaper.net
OR
Patrick Rapa
123 Chestnut Street, 3rd Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19106
The deadline is August 6th.


Link: www.citypaper.net/articles/2008/07/17/editors-letter

Posted in:  Comics   |   Comments »


Wednesday, July 23, 2008
Jeffrey T. Larson

Posted by Charley Parker at 7:08 pm 
 


Minnesota artist Jeffrey Larson studied at the Atelier Lack, now simply called The Atelier, an academic studio program founded by Richard F. Lack (who will be the subject of a future post if I can ever find enough examples of his work online). Lack was a student of R.H. Ives Gammell and one of the pioneers of returning the now-thriving European atelier style system of art instruction to viability here in the U.S.
Larson’s atelier training is most evident in his still life paintings, which have the refined clarity and precision of academic realism, but keep a painterly edge.
His figures, in contrast, are much looser, usually painted out of doors, and often posed in water or amid washlines full of sunlit sheets, bringing to mind the posed in water figures of Anders Zorn and the sun-drenced paintings of beach-goers by Joaquin Sorolla.
My favorites of Larson’s paintings, though, are his landscapes (bearing in mind that most of his figurative paintings are also landscapes in effect). These force me to resort to those overused terms “fresh” and “immediate” because nothing else sums them up quite as succinctly. 
His landscapes evoke the dappled sunlight on an intimate creek or the cool haze of a winter sky with beautifully efficient brush strokes and a subtle handling of color variation. He’s chosen a position on the spectrum of tight to loose rendering that I find particularly appealing.
Something I found of special interest in Larson’s work is they way he constructs the image with the direction and shape of his brushstrokes. He isn’t just dabbing color in, filling in shapes with slapdash blots of paint, he’s drawing with his brushstrokes, defining the shapes of objects in same way lines and textures applied in a drawing can follow and define the form. (This is a characteristic I particularly associate with painters like Sargent or Cecilia Beaux.)
I’m also fascinated by the apparent difference in approach between Larson’s loose landscape and figurative work and his more tightly rendered still life paintings. There is no indication of dates for the work on his site, so perhaps the still life paintings are earlier; or perhaps Larson just enjoys applying the range of his considerable abilities in a different manner for those subjects.
Larson was featured in articles in Classical Realism Journal in 2001 and American Artist in 2004 (the latter as a cover story).
Addendum: Reader A.W.C. (see this post’s comments) was kind enough to write and let us know that there is currently a solo exhibition of Jeffrey Larson’s work at Tree’s Place Gallery in Orleans, Massashusetts. In addition to an online catalog, which features several images of his work, there is a  multi-page gallery of images that can be enlarged by clicking on the thumbnails.


Link: www.jeffreytlarson.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting   |   8 Comments »



Jeffery T. Larson

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:42 am 
 

This it the original post on Jeffrey T. Larson, in which I made a typo in his name in the title the post. 
I’m leaving it in place because changing the title changes the link to the post, and this post has been linked to from BoingBoing (thanks, Mark!).
The full post is now here.
I’m certain I will have a typo on my gravestone, probably a reference to the one that puts me under it.



Warning:  array_map(): Argument #2 should be an array in /vservers/linesand/htdocs/wp-includes/post-template.php on line 689

Warning:  implode(): Bad arguments. in /vservers/linesand/htdocs/wp-includes/post-template.php on line 690
: 

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






