2008  August | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Hurricane Gustav Track & Animated Loop Link
Comments Off






* Follow NOLA News on this Twitter Feed
Hurricane Gustav Track. Follow the link to an animated loop.






Posted by Mike
on 08/31/2008 •
		Filed under: Hurricane Gustav



Initial Attack Stomping New Starts
Comments Off






I haven’t turned this web effort into a hurricane blog, it’s just that there are no new major fires to report on. I check into Wildland Fire frequently to see about new fires and can get an idea from the chatter if a fire will get beyond the initial attack phase.
Fires are happening but first responders are so efficient at their jobs nothing is getting away. This is a credit to the art of modern day professional wildland firefighting.
When a fire is reported the closest firehouse responds. If the responding engine company can rope it then it’s a done deal, if not dispatch is at the ready to tone out whatever equipment is required to get the job done.
Upon sizing up an incident a Cal Fire or Forest Service captain or engineer can order up equipment ranging from extra engines, dozers, water tenders, hand crews, air attack, helitack, even air tankers.
Once a battalion chief arrives to take the helm his or her experience weighs in and adjusts the incoming equipment one way or the other.
Right now, in California at least everyone is on a full or high dispatch level and as such everything is getting hooked quick.
Where I am at in the center of the State it is hot and dry. The weather is changing as low pressure is bringing wind tomorrow.
This, combined with the Labor Day crowds in the hills will test responders Statewide.
Meanwhile I am watching Hurricane Gustav. First responders as well as National Guard will be first back in to assess damaged areas and to rescue those who don’t heed evacuation warnings.




Posted by Mike
on 08/31/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season



Hurricane Gustav Raking Isla De La Juventud, Cuba
25 comments






*Update- Damage reports from “La Isla” are slowly reaching the web. USA Today offers video here, while the AP reports some news from Isla De la Juventude here offering:
“On Isla de la Juventud, surging waters tossed a transport ferry from its moorings into a neighborhood in the city of Nueva Gerona, and knocked down radio and television towers. The storm snapped fruit trees, flooded all major roads and demolished homes.”
Quite a few commenters on this post have relatives on the island. If any readers have first hand information or contact with residents of La Isla please CLICK HERE and let these people know what you have.
Update #2Video of the aftermath of Hurricane Gustav on “La Isla”
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LcuSfTUR1eQ&hl=en&fs=1]
———————————————————————————————–
 Hurricane Gustav is pummelling Cuba’s Isla De La Juventud, (Isle of Youth). Gustav is a category 4 as it crosses the 6th largest island in the Caribbean.
The “Isle of Youth” is inhabited by nearly 100,000.
The island was discovered by Columbus and claimed for Spain then ceded to the USA later. Cuba was granted ownership in the early 1900′s by the US Supreme Court.
The Island was a haven for pirates through its history and according to Wikipedia is primarily a prison island for Cuba today. The French like the island and call it a divers paradise.
None of the cable news channels have even mentioned this island but surely and sadly there is a monumental disaster unfolding on the “Isle of Youth”. Right now the discussion I see on TV is about care and preparations given to New Orleans residents and their pets as a massive evacuation begins.
We are a great country. I wonder what Cuba did for the inhabitants of Isla De La Juventud?
I remember back in grade school we were shown a movie about the levees of New Orleans. The narrator explained that the city was built below sea level and that flooding was inevitable.
I remember that movie because we did not have too many movie days in the classroom of Our Lady of Mercy Elementary School. Those were the days of the grainy 8mm projector reels spliced from repeated tears. The nuns were pretty good at splicing on the spot as I recall.
The takeaway for me was why did they build a city below sea level?
The image below is the only overhead view I could find of Nueva Gerona on Isla De La Juventude. 




Posted by Mike
on 08/30/2008 •
		Filed under: Hurricane Gustav



Drought In The Southeast OVER!
Comments Off






Fay was a drought buster. Gustav and Hanna will seal the deal.



Hurricane Center

US Drought Monitor




Posted by Mike
on 08/30/2008 •
		Filed under: Drought, Hurricane Gustav



FDNY Firefighters Escort WTC Steel Cross To Flight 93 Memorial
2 comments










Posted by Mike
on 08/25/2008 •
		Filed under: FDNY, Sept.11



Mid Season Fire "Break"
8 comments






We are entering the second half of the 2008 West Coast fire season. Central and northern California have owned the stage from May through August but soon the Santa Ana winds will begin pushing hot dry air from the high desert into the Los Angeles Basin, Inland Empire and coastal communities like Malibu.
San Diego has been quiet, uncomfortably quiet and they are as dry as everyone else on the West Coast. Residents of Julian, Ramona and Escondido will be sleeping with one eye open for the next few months.
Reflecting back on the first half of this historic fire season a couple of stories stick out. The Basin Complex was a study of old school firefighting vs a fiercely independent Big Sur community. Local bloggers were quick to rally the community with maps, fire info, news and pertinent information on individual properties. Old school meet the new world and begin thinking about adding a (new media) public relations spot on your command teams.
From the Basin Fire we learned definitively there are limits to how far the Forest Service will go to protect structures. The Tassajara Mountain Center was left to burn by the Forest Service but was saved by five residents of Tassajara. Personal liability of fire commanders seems now to be front and center. It’s clear homeowners in the urban-rural interface will have to take matters into their own hands (within limitations) in the future.
The Telegraph Fire showed how a determined air assault can stop a fire dead. At one point 16 fixed wing aircraft bombed the Telegraph as it burned in inhospitable terrain. The sustained air assault from fixed wing craft with the support of 15 helicopters kept the fire from burning into Yosemite Valley. The Telegraph Fire reaffirmed what we already knew about Cal Fire, they are committed to protecting defensible structures. Hundreds of homeowners in Mariposa and Midpines saw this first hand.
The first half of the season brought great loss as 9 of our brothers from Oregon died in a helicopter crash in the Trinity Alps.Death in the forest is indiscriminate. Eighteen year old Firefighter Andy Palmer died on the Eagle Fire in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest and 50 year old Fire Chief Dan Packer died on the Panther Fire in the Klamath National Forest.In early July, 63 year old volunteer Firefighter Robert Roland died after fighting a fire in Mendocino County.
Firefighter Palmer at 18 was among the youngest on the fire lines this summer. Chief Packer among the most experienced and Firefighter Roland perhaps the oldest and least experienced.
Residents in the upper Sacramento Valley, Redding in particular spent weeks under smoke filled air. Outside of Redding not much has been written about the economic toll on their local economy.
Both Cal Fire and the Forest Service have blown out their budgets for the season.
The curtain closes on an historic first half of the California fire season.
When you hear a siren or see an air tanker overhead say a prayer for the safety of the responders.




Posted by Mike
on 08/22/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season



The "Stay or Go" Debate, They Stay In Australia
3 comments






The story of the Baker Family in Anakie Australia written by the L.A. Times paints a realistic picture of what confronts residents who choose to stay and fight approaching wildfires.
Clearly here in the U.S. we are entering a new era where federal firefighters are backing away from directly attacking wildfires. Firefighter safety is cited as the main reason but whatever the reason it’s becoming clear homeowners will be forced to begin taking matters into their own hands.
Cal Fire has a homeowner education program called “Why 100 Feet?”. They offer videos and PDF’s to help urban-rural interface dwellers comply with state fire ordinances. Maintaining a defensible space is not voluntary.
Aussie pragmatism guides their decision to stay. There are generally more homes at risk than responding fire equipment. The article points out how the Bakers took part in training. Their property had been cleared and they had a plan. The decision to stay saved their property.
Similarly properties in Big Sur and the Tassajara compound were saved by homeowners and residents during the 160,000 acre Basin Complex Fire earlier this summer. These were properties given up on by Fed. firefighters.
Stay or go? Many seasoned firefighters frown on the “stay” side of the debate. I’m on the stay side as long as rural homeowners cleared their property, have a plan and own the equipment necessary to defend their homes.
In the next few weeks I’ll post a checklist of equipment necessary to mount a defense.
As a disclaimer I want to point out the obvious. If the local Sheriff or fire department tells you to leave, then grab your important documents and photos and leave.Though I fall on the side of staying that option is not a hard and fast rule.




Posted by Mike
on 08/12/2008 •
		Filed under: Defensible space



Where Is The Evergreen 747 Supertanker?
16 comments






One year ago I pondered why the Forest Service killed the deal with Evergreen for use of the 747 Supertanker. The decision was made by a non firefighting administrator just prior to a contract signing.
Had smarter heads prevailed we would be seeing the giant air tanker dropping retardant and water over fires today. What a welcomed sight that would have been.
The Evergreen 747 Supertanker can hold 24,000 gallons of retardant, twice what Cal Fire’s Tanker 910 delivers.
Tanker 910 has proven valuable to wildfire tacticians since it was put into operation last year. Tanker 910 is the big star of any fire it’s assigned to.
There is no question the future of air tankers is here, supertankers have proven value in wildfire suppression. 
Here is a promotional video produced by Evergreeen International last year. Shortly after the this video was produced the Forest Service tore up the contract.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KvBRWTumoZI&hl=en&fs=1]
Once the deal was killed Evergreen announced the aircraft was converted to a cargo craft. Kind of like putting Secretariat out to pasture before he ever ran a race.




Posted by Mike
on 08/12/2008 •
		Filed under: 747 Supertanker, DC-10 Supertanker, Tanker 910



Trinity Alps Tragedy, An On Scene Account
3 comments






The scope of the helicopter crash that claimed nine firefighters in the Trinity Alps is beginning to sink in. These guys were America’s best, proud sons of Oregon and brothers in the greater firefighter family.
When accidents happen the incident is studied in order to prevent similar incidents in the future. In this case the firefighters were passengers. The investigation is in the hands of the NTSB.
Reports surrounding the accident are surfacing.
Here is a first person account of the crash.
My family sends our thoughts and prayers for a quick recovery for the four survivors. Our condolences to the families and friends of the 9 fallen firefighters.




Posted by Mike
on 08/10/2008 •
		Filed under: LODD



Cachagua Valley Visit, Post Basin Complex
8 comments






I had to see the country.
Years ago I fought fire on the “front” or ocean side of the Basin Complex burn area.
Twice we brought crews down from Santa Cruz County late in the afternoon and scraped lines around fires burning on million dollar view sites.
Nothing like a beautiful Pacific Ocean sunset as a backdrop while you tie off a polite little burn. Easy money and fun.
A different world exists on the back side of Big Sur.
On my many visits to the Carmel Valley I never ventured south the community of Carmel Valley.
Yesterday I set out to find the Cachagua Valley, the place where residents were held hostage in their own homes as the Basin Complex Fire worked its way down the backside of the Ventana Wilderness.
Miles south of Carmel Valley I turned off the highway onto the Cachagua Valley Road. The Tularcitos CalFire station sign is about a half mile up the road. No station could be seen and a closed metal gate kept me from getting a look at the grounds. I’ve spent time at a number of Cal Fire /CDF stations and like to see how the stations stack up. This one is hidden from view.
So up the windy, narrow road up to a summit where I could finally pull over and take a look at charred peaks in the distance.
When God built the Ventana Wilderness he put all his leftover steep slopes and canyons behind Big Sur.
He also covered the steep canyons with vegetation so thick you can’t walk through it. Dare to try you are greeted by poison oak, dead and dying varieties of brush, live and dead oak trees choking varieties of conifers doing their best to make a life surrounded by their less polite neighbors.
My first thought was how did they ever put this fire out.
I descended into Cachagua Valley.  Four or more miles of downhill at 10 to 20 miles per hour on the 1  1/2 lane road and I’m on the valley floor. It’s not a valley really, it’s a road between mountains. It looks different from overhead views on Google Earth.
 Sitting on the porch of the Cachagua General Store was a gray bearded man reading. I decided not to interrupt his peace with a bunch of questions.  I took a good look around until it was time to crawl back out of the valley.
I had to see it and I did.
During the Basin Complex fire I followed the saga of the residents of this valley. To say they were treated poorly would be kind to local law enforcement. I’ll never understand why the residents were treated as they were by the Monterey County Sheriff but I did gain a little insight as I drove around the area.
Some places are primed to burn. Because of  geography, topography and meteorology some places are fire disasters in waiting. This little valley is such a place.It’s dry, and sits at the base of steep faced mountains. There is nowhere to defend an approaching fire from. Even the main road is covered by tree limbs. If you attempted to fire out from the Cachagua Valley road the fire would quickly be on both sides of the highway.
Undoubtedly Basin commanders running the east side had detailed discussions about the foreseeable threat to the little valley and concluded the place had to be evacuated. Tactics chosen to persuade the residents were heavy handed and wrong. There is no dispute about this.
My “after the fact” opinion is, if the fire would have moved into the Cachagua Valley people would have died.
Residents who prepare their properties by clearing vegetation, wrapping and have gel on hand can make a case to stay and defend in most cases. The majority of Cachagua homesteads I saw from the road yesterday did not fall into this category. Many of the properties I saw were dangerous fire traps. Firefighters would compromise their own safety to rescue residents in non defensible dwellings and that is the real problem.
Readers of this blog might sense a bit of hypocrisy, after all I have blasted the Basin Command for not helping the residents of Tassajara farther up canyon.
Two different scenarios. The monks at Tassajara had a defensible space and sprinklers installed. The compound had survived a direct fire assault years earlier. Weeks before Basin firefighters drew up structure protection plans for Tassajara. The plans were not put in action and five monks were left to do their best.
In addition Tassajara is one compound, not separate properties spread about. Wildfire burning through a narrow valley with residents sheltering in place is a nightmare scenario.
Once I got back on the Carmel Valley Road I noticed all the signs thanking firefighters tacked and nailed on telephone poles every couple of miles. I liked one in particular posted on a pole in the town of Carmel Valley.
 I saw no such signs in Cachagua. I think the sentiment is misplaced. An outstanding firefighting effort waged miles away saved their community.




Posted by Mike
on 08/08/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Basin Complex, brush clearance



Helicopter Down In The Trinity Alps
3 comments






A contract helicopter shuttling fire crews near the Buckhorn Fire near Junction City in Trinity County crashed Tuesday night. According to AP via Fire Rescue 1 nine are feared dead.
WildlandFire.com has a discussion and updates on the tragedy.




Posted by Mike
on 08/06/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, California Firestorm 2008, LODD



Welcome Sponsor Thermo-Gel
Comments Off






 Firefighter Blog is pleased to welcome Thermo-Gel as a site sponsor. Thermo-Gel is acknowledged as an important firefighting asset for homeowners and wildland firefighters.
Homeowners living in fire prone areas benefit as well as firefighters who use it for structure protection, exposure protection and fire suppression from the air and ground.


Every homeowner residing in the urban-rural interface should explore the Thermo-Gel product line.




Posted by Mike
on 08/06/2008 •
		Filed under: Thermo-Gel



Telegraph Fire Update & Fire Photo Essay
6 comments






Take a look at this Telegraph Fire photo slide show by Al Golub of Golub Photography. Some of Al’s air tanker photos are among the best I’ve seen, especially the series of shots of Tanker 910 near the end of the display.
The Telegraph Fire is now 80% contained and is at 34,034 acres. The ICS-209 still shows 16 fixed wing aircraft and 13 helicopters assigned as well as over 100 fire engines.500 firefighters have been released from the incident while just over 4,000 remain.
24 firefighters have been injured fighting the Telegraph Fire.
I imagine the line for demobilization checkout is lengthy. In order to be released from an incident equipment must be inspected before being allowed back on the road home.
Here are some highlights from the incident 209 updated at 2:00 am.
Projected incident movement/spread:No anticipated growth unless a significant event occurs.
Major problems and concerns:Concerns still remain in the north eastern portion of the fire. Accessibility problems continue to hamper suppression efforts due to terrain that is bisected by deep drainage’s, rock outcroppings and the Merced River Canyon.
Projected demobilization start date:08/01/2008 0800
Significant events today :All evacuation orders and warnings have been lifted as of 2200. Fire suppression repair is ongoing. Significant demobilization of Type I and II Engine Strike Teams has begun.




Posted by Mike
on 08/02/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire August 1 Morning Summary
7 comments






According to the most recent ICS-209 the Telegraph Fire has burned 34,000 acres and is 60% contained. Fifty more firefighters joined the fight bringing the total to 4,531.
More than half are Cal Fire personnel.
Equipment rundown:106 Fire Engines -52 Dozers -55 Water Tenders -61 Hand Crews (including 8 camp crews) -16 Helicopters -12 Fixed Wing Aircraft
A mere 10% or 414 of the total is supervisory or “overhead”. This is a very low ratio of “Chiefs to Indians”. Most of the fires I have followed this season reported overhead numbers between 25 and 35 percent.
Suppression costs have reached $24,000,000.
Twenty-two firefighters have been injured fighting the Telegraph Incident.
“Active fire behavior is primarily in the northern and eastern flanks of the fire. Hwy 140 to Yosemite National Park continues to be restricted; CHP will be escorting traffic when air operations are not working in the area. Fire suppression repair has begun. Good progress was made yesterday due to the 24 hour suppression efforts. The majority of residents were allowed to re-enter today, with the exception of Sherlock Rd. and parts of the community of Midpines. Hwy 140 will have various restrictions East of Mariposa.Remarks:The community of Midpines has a minimal threat. The Greely Hill, El Portal, and Yosemite National Park may be threatened. The fire will continue to cause partial or complete restrictions of Hwy 140 leading to the main entrance to Yosemite National Park. An evacuation center has been established at the Mariposa Elementary School. Kassabaum Spike Camp is fully operational. The incident will continue damage inspection over the next several days. The incident is now operating in an Area Command (Hodson), with north and south operational areas. ICT 6 will command the north area and ICT 8 will command the south area. The Merced River will be the operational area break. Fire suppression repair has begun. Containment on the southern portion and continued containment progress on the northern portion of the fire was directly related to the resource availability. Out of state Type 6 Engines are en route to the incident. This could potentially free up some Type III Engines.On the 48 hour timetable the following information is offered:There is a reduced fire threat to Mariposa, Bear Valley and Midpines area. The fire threatens the wild and scenic Merced River, which is habitat for the threatened and endangered Limestone Salamander. The Merced group of Giant Sequoia Redwoods will be threatened. Road restrictions on Hwy 140 East of Mariposa may affect access to Yosemite National Park. There is 73 million dollars of timber value at risk in the Stanislaus National Forest.”
I thought this number stood out considering the costs to date to suppress the fire is nearly 1/3 the value of the timber resource referenced.
The most important value at risk was Mariposa, Bear Valley, Midpines and the homes and ranches in Mariposa County. The fact only 22 homes burned is phenomenal all considered.
Credit expert wildland firefighting.




Posted by Mike
on 08/01/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Summary July 31 & Burma Grade Map
7 comments






The midday 209 is much the same as the ICS-209 filed at midnight. One new injury is reported bringing the total to 16. The fire is now 45% contained and 4,496 fire personnel are on assigned to the incident. The acreage is reported at 33,705.
This is a logistical challenge for Mariposa considering the town’s population is under 1,500. Mariposa has one main street, Highway 140. It’s situated much like Highway 49 neighbor Oakhurst, the other gateway city to Yosemite where Highway 41 serves as “Main Street”. A rough guess is 700 vehicles are part of the firefighting effort.
I hope someone is getting pictures.
The map below is the Telegraph Fire perimeter tonight using a Google Earth overlay from Forest Service Active Mapping Service.

Local Mariposan’s were kind enough to inform inquiring commenters from the previous post where the Burma Grade Road was located. The grade has been referred to by Telegraph Fire personnel from dozer operators to air attack pilots for days now but the road is not named on any maps. 
We can see now the importance of this road. It’s a key crossing point of the Merced River that allows resources to access fire grounds on the north bank above the river and beyond.
Another key geographic feature is Black Mountain, also unnamed on available maps. Even tanker pilots have asked for clarification from air attack as to which peak is “Black Mountain”. 

Update: Again thanks to readers we now know the exact location of Black Mountain in relation to the “Burma Grade” road. For those who want to see a topographic map click here. My experience was it takes some time to load.
Top map south to north aspect. Below east looking west.
Click maps to enlarge 





Posted by Mike
on 08/01/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Maps, Telegraph Fire

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















