lines and colors :: a blog about drawing, painting, illustration, comics, concept art and other visual arts » 2008 » June






Set up your study or picture in an orderly fashion. This order should not cramp either the linearist or the colorist... Never lose sight of that first impression by which you were moved. 
- Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot







It is no disgrace to start all over. It is usually an opportunity. 
- George Matthew Adams

 



 



Monday, June 30, 2008
Stephan Martiniere (update)

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:51 am 
 


Since I wrote about Stephan Martiniere a couple of years ago, he has updated his site, and his career, with numerous additions. 
Martiniere is a concept artist, art director and science fiction artist with a fertile imagine, superb skills as an artist and long, impressive resumé. In addition to his many stunning book covers and beautiful concept work for films like The Fifth Element, Star Wars II and III, I Robot and Star Trek XI; he has moved headlong into the gaming industry, “shapeshifting” his career, as his current bio puts it.
Martiniere has worked for three years as visual art director at Cyan, on their visually lavish games like Uru: Ages Beyond Myst, Uru: The Path of the Shell and Myst 5. He has now assumed the role of Creative Visual Art Director for Midway Games.
His expanded web site is a cornucopia of strikingly imaginative works in all of his areas of endeavor, including work for animated cartoons and theme park environments. Martiniere has a fresh crisp drawing style in his sketches and roughs, and a remarkable talent for projecting scale, atmospheric distance and detail in his more finished works. You can see where he has been influenced by artists like John Berkey, Syd Mead and Donato Giancola.
There are two collections of his Martiniere’s work available, Quantum Dreams: The Art of Stephan Martiniere and the recent Quantumscapes: The Art of Stephan Martiniere, as well as the more specific Art of Midway: Before Pixels and Polygons.
If you are fond of concept art or science fiction illustration, be aware that his site can be a major time-sink. It’s easy to get happily lost in Martiniere’s dazzling visions of other worlds.


Link: www.martiniere.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Sc-fi and Fantasy   |   5 Comments »


Sunday, June 29, 2008
Carl Zimmer’s Science Tattoo Emporium

Posted by Charley Parker at 11:34 am 
 


Quick, think of a subject for a tattoo!
Did an image of a skull come to mind? 
I mean, skulls can be cool, and I’ve seen some rather amazing skulls in the course of looking at tattoo art, but if you see enough tattoos, you begin to get a feeling of “C’mon now, how many &@$%#! skulls can we look at?”. 
Well, what if the skull was a scientifically accurate Australopithecus skull, or a triceratops skull? Now we’re getting into interestingly different territory.
Carl Zimmer is a science writer, a contributor to the New York Times, National Geographic, Science and Scientific American; as well as the author of six books on scientific subjects.
In addition to his blog, The Loom, “a blog about life, past and future”, Zimmer has developed a fascination with scientists who have tattoos related to scientific subjects, and writes another blog, Carl Zimmer’s Science Tattoo Emporium in which he posts about this novel topic.
Didn’t think of geeky scientists as likely to offer up their bodies as canvasses for tattoo art? Think again.
The choice of a tattoo, an image to be permanently (in essence) inscribed on the wearer’s body, is undeniably a reflection of that person’s self image, or ideas of what is important, enjoyable or of primary interest. Scientists, it seems, often choose subjects that attempt to distill the essence of some concept or idea that they feel is central to their take on the natural world and its varied phenomena. 
In Zimmer’s posts you will find tattoos of diatoms, galaxies, prehistoric cave paintings, microscopes, fossils, geometric solids, logarithmic spirals, scientific laws and maxims, chemical formulas for lysergic acid diethylamide and valium, maps of the solar system, carbon atoms, dna structures, partial and complete renderings of the periodic table of the elements, mathematical formulas for quantum physics, fluid dynamics and the golden ratio, Dawrin’s ship, the ascent of man, apes, lizards, fish, squid (with anatomical labeling), jellyfish, trilobites (always a favorite of mine), all manner of other animals; and, of course, dinosaurs. 
The above image is a tattoo of Dienonychus sported by University of Alaska geology student Jeremiah Drewel. 
Skulls, you say?
[Link via The Ink Nerd}


Link: Carl Zimmer's Science Tattoo Emporium

Posted in:  Outsider Art   |   24 Comments »


Saturday, June 28, 2008
Ambera Wellman

Posted by Charley Parker at 6:59 pm 
 


Ambera Wellman started experimenting with oil painting in 2004 at the age of 22. She has just moved from being a self taught artist to being a student at the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design last year. She already seems to be finding a mature voice, at least in one series of paintings.
If you browse back through her blog you will find paintings, and  a few drawings, of a variety of subjects, but it is her series of paintings of skies and clouds that immediately grabbed my attention.
Great sheets of cloud masses, in turn glowing with brilliant color or dark with more subtle tones, roil and billow across her canvasses. Some of her skies are luminescent with reflected light, almost as if the clouds were generating their own light. In the darker canvasses, they have the opposite feeling. as though the cloud forms were devouring the light. 
In her older works, the landscape above which the clouds do their stuff is more varied and often busier with foreground objects; in her more recent work, she keeps the foreground in check and lets the clouds and skies dominate.
Wellman also has a dedicated web site, in which, in addition to her land/cloudscapes, you will find her photorealistic portraits as well as an interesting selection of reproductions, in which she has replicated well-known paintings. 
Unlike the more common factory-like process of churning out reproductions of the same painting over an over (see my post on Dafen, China), Wellman has made the copying of these paintings part of her learning process. I don’t know if she chose the paintings to reproduce, or if they were commissioned on request, but they vary from Ingres to Modigliani to Vermeer to Chagall to Delacroix, and she apparently picked a few things about skies from her study of Monet and N.C. Wyeth.
In preparing for a new exhibit of her cloud-themed landscapes at the Black Duck Gallery, in Lunenburg, NS, she recently asked her blog readers to give her feedback on which of five paintings to choose for the advertisements to accompany the show; perhaps indicating that though she is mature enough as a painter to have a clear voice, she is young and open minded enough to step back and look at the response her images elicit from others in judging her path.


Link: http://amberas.blogspot.com (blog)
http://www.amberas.com (web site)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   9 Comments »


Friday, June 27, 2008
Stephen Magsig

Posted by Charley Parker at 12:37 pm 
 


Stephen Magsig is a Detroit painter whose blog, Postcards from Detroit, is a “Painting a Day” style painting diary inspired by pioneering daily painters Duane Keiser and Juilan Merrow-Smith.
Magsig focuses on urban landscape, and most of his paintings are of urban scenes in Detroit and New York, where he is a part-time resident. He studied at Ferris State College and the College for Creative Studies, but considers himself essentially self taught as a painter.  
His large scale gallery paintings are almost photo-realist in approach, but his smaller, more immediate works have a wonderfully painterly quality that works particularly well for his subject matter of industrial scenes, abandoned buildings, empty houses and architectural details.
There is something particularly appealing about the way Magsig applies his paint in quick, brusque strokes that seem to have a texture just right for the rough surfaces of the neglected buildings and weathered industrial structures he revels in portraying. 
I particularly enjoy his Hopperesque portraits of abandoned houses, sometimes boarded up, surrounded by weeds, and surprisingly rich in color. I also like his beautiful industrial nocturnes, reminiscent of Whistler’s atmospheric images of the River Thames. You’ll also see echoes of Charles Sheeler’s industrial geometry in Magsig’s angular compositions of smokestacks, factory walls, bridges and gantries.
When browsing through his site, you’ll find more variation as you go back in time, with occasional forays into still life and traditional landscape. Be sure to click on the blog images to get to the large versions in which you can see the texture and application of the paint.


Link: http://myartspage.blogspot.com

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Painting a Day   |   6 Comments »


Wednesday, June 25, 2008
Frank Frazetta’s Funny Animal Comics

Posted by Charley Parker at 8:01 am 
 


OK, I know I haven’t done a dedicated post about Frank Frazetta yet (I’ll get to it, I promise), but I couldn’t resist writing about this material when I found out it was available online. 
For those of you who might not be aware of Frank Frazetta, I’ll simply say that, along with less well known compatriots like Roy Krenkel, he set the standards for fantasy, and particularly “sword and sorcery”, illustration during the second half of the 20th Century. Though basically retired now and dealing with health problems, he continues to work on artistic projects.
Frazetta has also been an outstanding comics artist during his career, turning in stunning work for E.C. Comics and producing his own newspaper strip, Johnny Comet. He also worked as an assistant for Al Capp on L’il Abner, Dan Barry on Flash Gordon and Will Elder on Little Annie Fanny for Playboy. Some of his comic book work was done in collaboration with Roy Krenkel and Al Williamson.
What many people, even some dedicated Frazetta fans, don’t realize is that Frazetta was primarily a comics artist for the early part of his career, starting in professional comic book work at the age of 16.
Some of his earliest work was for so-caled “funny animal” comics, in which anthropomorphized barnyard animals careen through loopy nonsensical misadventures in emulation of the popular animated cartoons in the same genre.
Tapping the visual lexicon of Disney, Warner Brothers, Fleisher Studios, Walter Lantz and other classic animated cartoons from the 1930′s and 40′s, the young Frazetta drew stories for characters like Hucky Duck, Dodger DeSquoil, Munchy Squirrel and Barney Rooster. Though the characters weren’t memorable, Frazetta’s art for them was, showing an uncanny and precocious talent for draftsmanship, calligraphic linework and expressive comics storytelling. 
Frazetta’s funny animal work (which he often signed “Fritz”) didn’t go unnoticed; and he received an offer to work for Disney, but turned it down for personal reasons.
Someone (unnamed, as far as I can tell) has posted a complete Frazetta Barney Rooster story on the Comicrazys blog, giving a rare opportunity to see the early Frazetta at his best. If you’ve seen other funny animal comics from the time (or since, for that matter), you’ll immediately see Frazetta’s work stand out, with a visual punch and clarity that belies its apparent simplicity. His use of line weight, judicious additions of texture and masterful spotting of blacks give the drawings weight and force without detracting from their manic freedom.
Some of Frazetta’s funny animal comics were collected in a book, Small Wonders: The Funny Animal Art of Frank Frazetta in 1991. Originally intended to be a two volume set, of which I’ve never seen a second volume (I don’t think it was published), the book included a knowledgeable overview of Frazetta’s early comics career in an introduction by William Stout. It is unfortunately out of print, but you may be able to find it used through Amazon or other book search services. 
I have a notion that the online strip was scanned from the book, but any opportunity to look as Frazetta’s comic book work is a treat.
[Link via Journalista]


Link: http://comicrazys.wordpress.com/2008/06/22/barney-rooster-frank-frazetta

Posted in:  Comics   |   5 Comments »


Tuesday, June 24, 2008
Arthur Frank Mathews

Posted by Charley Parker at 10:47 am 
 


Athur Mathews was a California painter active in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries. 
Mathews is sometimes thought of as an Art Nouveau artist. He and his wife Lucia Mathews, also an artist and one of his former students at the Mark Hopkins Institute of Art in San Francisco, brought together influences from the European Art Nouveau artists, the burgeoning American Arts and Crafts movement (of which they were an influential part) and the ideals of classical art, and created a style that came to be called the California Decorative Style. 
Arthur Mathews was trained as both an artist and an architect. He studied painting at the San Francisco School of Design and later at the Academie Julian in Paris. There, like many American painters of the time, he was exposed to the creative explosion of avant-garde European art. Unlike most of his compatriots, he did not become enamored of the techniques of the French Impressionists, but took his inspiration from the graceful elegance of Art Nouveau (see my post on Alphonse Mucha) and the sublime tonalism of Whistler. (It’s sometimes hard to remember that Art Nouveau and Impressionism were essentially contemporary, Mucha and Gauguin shared a studio for a time.)
Mathews returned to California and became director of the San Francisco School of Design; and brought his various influences to bear on the creation of brilliantly colored and elegantly naturalistic California landscapes. He became an influential teacher and, though he was not a proponent of Impressionist ideals, counted among his students major figures of California Impressionism and plein air painting like Granville Redmond.
Arthur and Lucia produced a range of artistic and decorative works — stained glass, carved frames, furniture, graphic design and illustration. After the San Francisco earthquake of 1906, they joined with like minded artists and artisans and tried to make their part in rebuilding San Fancisco a guiding and enlightening role, with the dream of making the city a cultural utopia.
Unfortunately, there aren’t lot of high-resolution images of their work on the web just yet. As their influence and importance is rediscovered, that should change. 
Those in the Ohio area can see an exhibit currently at the Akron Art Museum (originally organized by the Oakland Museum of California) called California as Muse: The Art of Arthur and Lucia Mathews that runs until September 7, 2008.
For the rest of us, there is a new book created to accompany the exhibit, The Art of Arthur & Lucia Mathews by Harvey L. Jones.
There is a nice post about Arthur Mathews, with several images, on the 2blowhards blog, and I’ve listed what other resources I could find for you below.
[Exhibit link via Art Knowledge News]


Link: California as Muse: The Art of Arthur and Lucia Mathews at the Akron Art Museum
Archived exhibit notes and Press release from Oalkand Museum
Fine Arts Museum of San Francisco (21 works - zoomable - see page 2 & 3)
Murals at California Pacific Medical Center
Arthur Mathews article on  2blowhards (several images)
Metropolitan Museum of Art (1 image, zoomable)
Hirshorn Museum (1 image, larger here)
Smithsonian American Art Museum (1 image)
AskArt (5 images)
Artroots (1 image)
Arthur and Lucia Mathews items on Pomegranate stores
Wikipedia bio
Artcyclopedia (links and resources)

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art   |   2 Comments »


Monday, June 23, 2008
Seth Engstrom

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:57 am 
 


Seth Engstrom has worked as an art director, concept artist, layout artist and production designer for animated features like Avatar, Bee Movie, Shark Tale, Spirit: Stallion of the Cimmeron, Sinbad and El Dorado.
His blog contains an interesting range of images, from color and black and white concept art from the above mentioned films to oil paintings of highway overpasses, to figure sketches in oil and location sketches in gouache.
The most recent entries are a series of monochromatic watercolor or ink wash studies of freeway ramps and overpasses, in which he seems fascinated with the geometric arrangement of the structures and the negative shapes that they carve out of the space they surround. The series includes some finished oil paintings of highway structures and airport terminals with a brusque finish to the paint surface.
Farther back in the blog posts we come across some of his film concept work, also often monochromatic, usually in wash or graphite. These are frequently highly detailed, with a great feeling of texture and dramatic lighting. Some of my favorites are his moody and atmospheric drawings of Mayan temples for El Dorado (image above, top).
As you continue down the page, you’ll encounter work from other films and then some of his oil figure studies. Don’t miss the fresh little gouache sketches toward the bottom of the page (above, bottom).
[Link via John Nevarez (see my previous post on John Nevarez)]


Link: http://sethengstrom.blogspot.com

Posted in:  Concept & Visual Dev.,Watercolor and Gouache   |   4 Comments »


Sunday, June 22, 2008
Leonardo’s Drawings

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:21 pm 
 


Leonardo da Vinci is one of those artists, like Rembrandt, Monet or Van Gogh, who is obscured from us by the brilliance of his fame. 
It is almost impossible to look at Leonardo without the attendant baggage of his reputation as the ultimate embodiment of the Renaissance, one of the most brilliant minds in history, and the creator of iconic images; including what is arguably the most famous painting in the World, the Mona Lisa (which I have attempted to show you with fresh eyes in my post La Giaconda (The Mona Lisa), flipped for your viewing pleasure).
Leonardo, despite his reputation as an inventor, proto-scientist, anatomist, and philosopher, was primarily an artist. To look at him as an artist, as freshly as we can, perhaps we should step back to that most basic of an artist’s skills, drawing.
Even here, Leonardo’s reputation confounds us; even his drawings are famous, from the iconic Virtruvian Man, to his drawings for flying machines, weapons of war or fantastically advanced notions like submarines and helicopters. His notebooks are the most renowned collections of sketches, drawings and notes in the world. Some of his drawings from them are among the most famous in the world and have been reproduced widely, even animated.
To most artists, drawings are an exploration of the visual world and their response to it, and preparatory studies for finished works. To Leonardo they were that and more; explorations of scientific inquiry, logistics, inventiveness, anatomical study, investigations of motion and natural phenomena, and an essential tool in his relentless quest to know and understand the world around him.
So we step back again, and try to look at his drawings simply as those of an artist, to see if we can get to know him on that level; drawing what he saw with the materials at hand, largely pen and ink and silverpoint, and less frequently, chalks.
Here, in the details of his firm line work, delicate shading and expressive textures, perhaps we can meet Leonardo the artist; observing, studying and interpreting the world before his eyes with uncanny intensity and consummate skill.
Here we see his mastery of tone, his robust draftsmanship, but ultimately his struggle as an artist, like that of most serious artists, to make his skill the measure of the fantastic wonders of the world he wanted to portray. 
There is a site devoted the drawings of Leonardo da Vinci with about fifty of his drawings. A better selection, though not as easy to navigate, can be found on the Web Gallery of Art (if an image doesn’t come up in the pop-up when you click for the detail image, try reloading the pop-up window).
The Metropolitan Museum of Art has a selection of Leonardo’s drawings as part of a previous exhibit. I’ve listed some other online resources below.
Also, see my previous post The Face of Leonardo?, in which I talk about how Siegfried Woldhek analyzed Leonardo’s catalog of drawings to find those that most likely qualify as self-portraits.
There are a number of books devoted to Leonardo’s drawings. The inexpensive Dover edition, Leonardo Drawings, is viewable online through Google Book Search.
The second volume of the two volume set, Leonardo da Vinci, Vol I: The Complete Paintings; Vol II: Sketches and Drawings by Frank Zollner is beautiful, contains many of his well known and lesser known drawings, nicely reproduced and remarkably inexpensive. Though, not listed in print on Amazon, you can find it online, sometimes even discounted new, or even cheaper used.
Leonardo’s Notebooks, edited and arranged by Anna Suh, is more an appreciation than a catalog, and features many of his translated writings along with the sheets to which they relate.
There are numerous other books on Leonardo’s drawings and his notebooks. Many of them quite inexpensive; so don’t be deterred by the fact that Bill Gates at one point paid over 30 million dollars for one his original notebooks, the Leicester Codex, making it the most expensive book ever purchased.  


Site Quirks: The drawings of Leonardo da Vinci
Web Gallery of Art
aiwaz.net
Royal Collection (also from The Guardian)
Anatomical drawings on gfmer.ch
Sketches from the British Library (requires the Adobe Shockwave plug-in)
Drawings of Italian Painters
Metropolitan Museum of Art, and here
Louvre
Leonardo on Artcyclopedia (links and resources)
My previous posts on Leonardo:
The Face of Leonardo?
Da Vinci's Drawings Animated
 La Giaconda (The Mona Lisa), flipped for your viewing pleasure
Da Vinci's Last Supper in high resolution servings

Posted in:  Drawing,Gallery and Museum Art,Pastel, Conté & Chalk,Pen & Ink   |   3 Comments »


Saturday, June 21, 2008
Irene Maria Jacobs

Posted by Charley Parker at 9:36 am 
 


Irene Maria Jacobs is an illustrator from the Netherands who works in a variety of styles and mediums. 
She works in traditional media like paint and ink, as well as digital applications like Illustrator, Photoshop and Flash, frequently combining traditional and digital media in various stages of the same illustration.
Her images sometimes take the form of monochromatic drawings in which he employs calligraphic lines surrounding more softly rendered passages, To these she often adds areas of color, or even full color rendering, giving them a fascinating multi-layered feeling.
Some of her other work can be starkly graphic, with flat areas of color arranged in complex patterns, highly rendered in a more traditional approach or stylized in various ways, including faux-woodcut.
Jacobs studied fashion illustration at Art-School St Joost in Breda. She worked in Germany for a time and is currently based in Rotterdam. Her clients include WIRED, Vibe, Marie Claire UK, Toyota, Coca-Cola and ESPN. 


Link: www.im-jac.com
Interview on websteem
Interview on Veerle

Posted in:  Illustration   |   2 Comments »


Thursday, June 19, 2008
Timothy J. Clark

Posted by Charley Parker at 2:17 pm 
 


Though he apparently paints in oil as well, I have been unable to find anything but images of watercolors while searching for pantings by Timothy J. Clark.
The watercolors are certainly enough, though. Crisp, clear, confidently rendered and deftly executed, Clark’s landsacpes, architectural views and room interiors are revealed in often theatrical compositions with dramatic casts of dark and light. At other times, his value contrasts are more muted, giving way to subtle variations in color that carry a softer emotional tone. 
Clark’s website has a nice but limited selection of his paintings, but you may be able to see a mid-career retrospective of his work that has just opened at the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown, Ohio, and will travel to the Whistler House Muesum of Art in Lowell, MA in the fall.
There is a new book accompanying the exhibit, Timothy J. Clark by Jean Stern and Lisa Farrington. Though currently out of stock at the Amazon link I’ve given, you can order it directly from the artist’s web site.
Clark is also an art historian and the author of several books on art history, including The Painting of Modern Life, a fascinating look at the changing role of painting during one of the most interesting places and periods, Paris in the 1860′s and 1870′s, when the nature of painting, its sturcture, technique and subject matter, were undergoing dramatic changes.
Clark’s knowledge of the history of late 19th Century painting carries over into his choice of inspiration, notably the American Impressionists in general and John Singer Sargent in particular. 
You can readily see the influence of Sargent’s beautiful watercolors of Venice in Clark’s modern visions of the same entrancing subject in images accompanying an article on TFAOI about a previous show of Clark’s work.
[Link via Art Knowledge News]


Link: www.tclarkart.com
Exhibit at Butler Institute of American Art
TFAOI, also here and here

Posted in:  Gallery and Museum Art,Watercolor and Gouache   |   4 Comments »


 « Earlier Posts




Lines and Colors


Lines and Colors is a blog about drawing, sketching, painting, comics, cartoons, webcomics, illustration, digital art, concept art, gallery art, artist tools and techniques, motion graphics, animation, sci-fi and fantasy illustration, paleo art, storyboards, matte painting, 3d graphics and anything else I find visually interesting.  If it has lines and/or colors, it's fair game.




» Home
» About/Contact
» Suggest a Site
» Link to Lines and Colors
» Colophon
Subscribe (RSS Link)
» How Not to Display Your 
Artwork on the Web
» How  to Display Your 
Art on the Web
» Search Page






Article Search:










Translation




 





 RT @dailypainter: Eye Candy: Willem Van Aelst: Stunning color & composition: http://t.co/rgQ9oXU #art 18 hours ago The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation: http://t.co/KRP8tng Lines and Colors post  18 hours ago <em>The 911 Report: A Graphic Adaptation</em>, http://t.co/KRP8tng New Lines and Colors post  2011/09/10


LinesAndColorsPromote Your Page Too


Categories:

3d CGI

Amusements

Animation

Anime & Manga

Blogroll

Book Reviews

Cartoons

Color

Comics

Concept & Visual Dev.

Creativity

Digital Art

Digital Painting

Displaying Art on the Web

Drawing

Gallery and Museum Art

Illustration

Motion Graphics & Flash

Museums

Online Museums

Outsider Art

Painting

Painting a Day

Paleo Art

Pastel, Conté & Chalk

Pen & Ink

Prints and Printmaking

Sc-fi and Fantasy

Sculpture & Dimensional

Site Comments

Sketching

Storyboards

Tools and Techniques

Vector Art

Vision and Optics

Watercolor and Gouache

Webcomics







Archives: 	
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005



Your host:
Charley Parker
My other sites:


Argon Zark!
Interactive webcomic
Dinosaur Cartoons
Dinosaur cartoons, how to draw activities, dinosaur online coloring and cartoon dinosaur stuff
DinoMixer
Dinosaur mix and match iPhone and iPod Touch app, site includes list of iPhone app review sites
My Zazzle Site
Dinosaur Cartoons T-shirts, sweatshirts, mugs and other dinosaur goodies
Charley Parker Design
Web site design in Philadelphia and Delaware
Flash Class Delaware
Adobe Flash class I teach at the Delaware College of Art and Design, in the Philadelphia area
Personal site
Sketchbook





Relevant Blogs

Art, Painting & Sketch

Art Knowledge News
Art News Blog
Art History Today
Flying Fox
Urban Sketchers
Painting Perceptions
The Hidden Place
PaintBlog
Underpaintings
Art Inconnu
Art Contrarian
Artist A Day
Women Painting Women
RusArt
The Art of the Landscape
Victorian/Edwardian Paintings
The Tools Artists Use
Drawing Connections
beinArt Surreal Art Collective
Eye Level
All the Strange Hours
Art & Critique
laketrees
'skine.art
American Artist
The Blue Lantern
Silver Fortress
Right Some Good
Empty Easel
Drawn in Black
p.i.g.m.e.n.t.i.u.m
The Dirty Palette Club
Richard Piloco
CultureGrrl
Brian Yoder's GoodArt
Your Daily Art
Exploring Color & Creativity
Acuarela
Making a Mark
Art Notes
Illustrated Ideas
SketchCrawl
Enrico's Blog
Tirade
A Look at Art & Design
Drawsketch
Wally Torta's Journal
inkFinger
Lightning Studio

Laurelines
The Drawing Club

Everyday Matters


The Creative Journey
Quotidian Curiosities
The Art Blog
Moleskinerie


"Painting a Day"

A Painting a Day (Keiser)
On Painting (Keiser)
Karen Jurick
Jeff Hayes
David R. Darrow
Julian Merrow-Smith
Shelly Grund
Elin Pendelton
Louis Boileau
Darren Maurer
Jan Blencowe
Justin Clayton
John Conkey
Paul Hutchinson
Carol Marine
Susan Spar
Hall Groat II
Bob Eggleton
Daily Painters Gallery
Jeff Hayes' Squidoo List


Other Painting Blogs

Virtual Gouache Land
Neil Hollingsworth
Struggling to Paint
Twice a Week
Belinda Del Pesco
Sarah Wimperis


Gallery Art & Illustration mix

Juxtapoz


Illustration

Gurney Journey
Howard Pyle
100 Years of Illustration
Illustration Mundo
Illustration Art
BibliOdyssey
The Art Department
LCSV4
Today's Inspiration
Jack Talk
Illustration Friday
Asia Drawing Portal
Monster Brains
Illustrators & Illustrations (RU)
SI-Blog-LA
Astrona
Pastelogram






So, Cat Tacos?
Tim O'Brien
Elwood H. Smith
DaniDraws.com
Designers Who Blog
iSpot Blog



Illustration  & Comics

Drawn!
Le blog de Li-An (FR)
Flesk Publications (FR)
Barbara Canepa (IT/FR)
Sandbox World
Comics, Covered


Comics & Cartoons

Draw!
Newsarama Blog
Forbidden Planet Int.
Bolt City
Flight
The Morning Improv
Journalista
Comixpedia
Funnybook Babylon
FPI Blog Log
MeetingMcCay
JaMiE BaKeR: FALLOUT
Middleton's Sketchbook
Boneville
The Self-Absorbing Man
'Ringo!
E-Ville Press
T Campbell's Blog
Digital Strips
Sketchbook Sessions
Joe Zabel
dessins de denis bodart
The Hotel Fred
redsketch
Ojalá tuviera un gemelo perverso
Mes vendredis...
Drawing Board
Cagle's Cartoon Web Log
Daily Cartoonist


Illustration  & Concept

Gorilla Artfare


Animation & Concept

ASIFA Animation Archive
Articles and Texticles
Cold Hard Flash
Cartoon Brew
Animation Blog
ANIMAX Entertainment
all kinds of stuff (Kricfalusi)
Classic Cartoons
John Nevarez
Armand Serrano
Marcos Mateu-Mestre
AAU Character & Creature Design
AAU Animation Notes
Spline Doctors
Ghostbot: Punch Pants
Art Dojo
House of Cool
sparth construct
Yacin the faun
Jose Lopez
Kelsey Mann
Cre8tivemarks Blog
Pencil Shavings
Stephen Silver
teamgt studios
CG Explorer
Ice-Cream Monster Toon Cafe
fwak! blog
Subconcious Ink
art-attacks
The Ward-O-Matic
AniPages Daily
Captaintolk
mad-t-party


Paleo & Scientific

Paleoblog
Olduvai George
Street Anatomy
Visualizing the Biological


Tools & Techniques

The Tools Artists Use
Pencil Talk


Other

ColourLovers Blog


Friends & Relations
(off-topic)
	
Frostbites
My Side of the Circle
Inside Bob's Brain 3.1
MillerMark







Meta: 	
Log in
RSS
Comments RSS
Valid XHTML
XFN
WP

















These are some art related web sites I designed.
Delaware Sculptor
Charles Parks, Delaware sculptor, leading proponent of realist sculpture in the Brandywine Valley tradition. Limited edition bronze castings are available from the Wilmington, Delaware sculpture studio.
Wood Sculpture
John and Pat Dickinson, wood sculpture, turned wood, abstract painting and art glass, available through Creations Gallery in Delaware and directly from their Oregon studio.
Pochade boxes for plein air painters
Alla Prima Pochade, thoughtfully designed, hand-crafted painting boxes make outdoor painting a delight. 
Dinosaur Art & Palentological Illustration
Walters & Kissinger Dinosaur Art Studio, paleontological life restoration art, licensable dinosaur illustrations and images of preshistoric animals and plants.
Another recent client of my design studio:
Matrx Systems
Apple Macintosh sales, service, installation and repair in Philadelphia, Delaware and New Jersey
 
Some friends:
Tom Jackson Studio
Children's Book Illustration from Tom jackson Studio = playful and whimsical pen and ink and watercolor illustrations for children's books.
Chandeluse
Vintage jewelry, housewares, clothing, from Meg Levitt.

 


 
















Advertise on comics related blogs

Display Ads on Lines and Colors: $25/week or $75/month.

Please note that display ads for lines and colors are limited to art related topics and may not be animated.









 Amazon.com Widgets



 




Exhibitions
Drawings, Illustration & Comics Art
Listed by start date
Updated July 13, 2011



Escape To Adventure: Focus on Arthur E. Becher
Mar 19 - Dec 31, 2011
Delaware Art Museum, DE

Italian Master Drawings from the Wolfgang Ratjen Collection: 1525 - 1835
May 8 - Nov 27, 2011
National Gallery of Art, DC
The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection (old master drawings)
May 13 - Aug 28, 2011
Morgan Library and Museum, NY
Two Masters of Fantasy: Bresdin and Redon
May 25, 2011  - Jan 16, 2012
Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA

Drawings and Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collection
June 13  - Sept 11, 2011
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
It's a Dog's Life: Norman Rockwell Paints Man's Best Friend
June 25  - Nov 11, 2011
Norman Rockwell Museum, MA
N.C. Wyeth's Treasure Island, Classic Illustrations for a Classic Tale
Sept 10 - Nov 20, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire from Leonardo to Levine
Sept 13, 2011  - March 4, 2012
Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY
Honoring Howard Pyle: Major Works from the Collections
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Inspiring Minds: Howard Pyle as Teacher
Sept 17 - Nov 17, 2011
Brandywine River Museum, PA
Howard Pyle: American Master Rediscovered
Nov 12, 2011 - March 4, 2012
Delaware Art Museum, DE











 

 Images © by their respective owners | All written content ©2005-2010 Charles A. Parker






