Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire | StarTribune.com














YOUR GUIDE TO THE TWIN CITIES




Welcome, 

Sign Out


Sign InRegister









Sign in Not a member yet? Register now


You must be registered to comment and vote on comments.



Member name:  
Password:  

Forgot your username or password?















Change Password


Current:  
New Password:  
Confirm New Password:  







 Help  Contact Us Feedback Site Index   Subscriber Services  Newspaper Subscriptions Manage Account eEdition Newsletters Mobile RSS   Buy Ads  Online Ads Newspaper Ads Classifieds   Store  Photographs Article Archives InfoArt Page Reprints Commercial Reprints Permissions 





Global Search


















Site Index






nation

















News

Local
Nation
World
Investigators
Weather
Obituaries



Local

North Metro
West Metro
South Metro
East Metro
Minneapolis
St. Paul
Your Voices
Blogs + Columns



Sports

Vikings / NFL
Twins / MLB
Wolves / NBA
Wild / NHL
Lynx / WNBA
Gophers
High Schools
Outdoors
Golf
Motorsports
Sports Blogs




Business

Economy
Your Money
Blogs + Columns



Politics

State + Local
State Shutdown
National
Hot Dish Blog



Opinion

Editorials
Our Columnists
Other Views
Cartoons
Letters



Lifestyle

Taste
Home + Garden
Travel
Wellness
Style
Relationships
Blogs + Columns



Entertainment

Movies
Music
Eat + Drink
Stage + Arts
TV + Media
Books
Family + Fun
Celebrities
Comics + Games
Blogs + Columns
vita.mn






Classifieds



Place an Ad
Announcements
Obituaries
Garage Sales + Estate Sales
Merchandise
Pets + Livestock
Business Opportunities
Public + Legal Notices





Autos



Search Used Vehicles
Search New Vehicles
Sell your Vehicle





Housing



Advertise
Buy a Home
Rentals
Commercial
Foreclosures
Find an Agent
Mortgage Guide
Senior Living





Jobs



Find a Job
Post a Job
Healthcare Careers
Career Advice
Top Workplaces





Shopping



STeals
Yellow Pages
Newspaper Ads
Special Sections







































Home
Nation









Firefighters gain ground against Texas wildfire



                Article by:
        
                         
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                    APRIL CASTRO         
                	
    	
                            , Associated Press
                        
Updated: September 7, 2011 - 11:06 PM








hide


Danielle Prieto, 17, sits outside a neighbor's home, which central Texas wildfires destroyed, on Tuesday Sept. 6, 2011 after residents were allowed to return to the Steiner Ranch neighborhood of Austin, Texas. The home was one of many burned by wildfires, which began to spread into the area Sunday. 


Photo: Shannon Kintner, Associated Press
Buy Photos
Star Tribune photo galleries
view larger








2

comments
 resize text 
print
buy reprints



Tweet





share



email






Email share


your name



your email



recipients email



+ add a comment
add a comment






















BASTROP, Texas     - Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.
The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.
One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but "if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them."
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.
Moreover, the Forest Service said it will spend whatever is necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses accounted for later by state leaders.
However, the Fire Service does face some hurdles when it comes to resources.
A converted DC-10 jetliner from California that is capable of dropping 12,000 gallons of fire retardant arrived in Austin on Wednesday but won't be used until Friday morning because officials could not find a qualified pilot to fly it, Forest Service spokeswoman Holly Huffman said. The agency is facing competition for pilots from other states, particularly California, that are also fighting blazes, she said.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local officials fighting the fire.
Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance would be quickly assessed.
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place.
"It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two confirmed deaths. ... So I'll take that," she said.
Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sunday.


"I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority," said Guylaine Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. "Now he's out on the campaign trail when us Texans are here in need."
Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.
"The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman," said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. "Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate."
Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring.
"Have they been brought under control?" Romney asked, talking across the room to Perry.
"It's still too early to tell," Perry responded. "They're serious, they're mean."
___
Associated Press writers Jim Vertuno in Bastrop; Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio and Kasie Hunt in Simi Valley, Calif., contributed to this report.



read full article

1
2
next








more from nation

9/11 memorial plaza in NYC to open to public


Traffic nightmare over closed Ohio River bridge


Final whale stranded off FL Keys goes to SeaWorld








2

comments
 resize text 
print
buy reprints



Tweet





share



email






Email share


your name



your email



recipients email



+ add a comment
add a comment
























ADVERTISEMENT













                    from the homepage
   


Grief, memories, hope


In Twin Cities, a solemn day of remembrance


Vikings bungle optimistic start

















ADVERTISEMENT









Most read
Most Emailed
Most Commented



Grief, memories, hope
Devastating fires in Texas were far from unexpected
Military preps troops for a new era
Three places, so different, yet all forever changed
9/11 LIVE: Scenes from the 9/11 anniversary
Woman burned with curling iron in home invasion
9/11 memorial plaza in NYC to open to public
What people are saying about the postal service




'War on Terror' finally over
Toys 'R' Us gains new spirit
Man stabbed to death in downtown Minneapolis parking ramp
From flab to fit 
BWCA fire expands, closing some routes 
Premium: Doctors' pay plan is cutting edge
Sore head, red face linger for Kill
Melee breaks out after teen dance party 




Melee breaks out after teen dance party 
An All Day payday: $100M for 7 years
A lifelong sacrifice
Marking that painful day without being consumed
Synthetic drug sales booming on Web 
Sunday update: Coach Kill shows continued improvement
Israel, Egypt try to stem damage from embassy riot
Hope and heroism: Obama hails post-9/11 resilience


































ADVERTISEMENT












ADVERTISEMENT



























































inside the StarTribune


Home


 
 
Download Star Tribune app for iPad


	





    




nation




Complete coverage: The day that changed America












local




A Lethal Dose: The war on synthetic drugs












Home




New high school football hub


	





    




investigators




A showcase of Minnesota’s best investigative reporting


	











Home




UPickem 2011: Join the fun, win prizes


	





    


























Global Search





















 News
  Local
  Sports
 Business
  Politics
 Opinion
 Lifestyle
  Entertainment



 Classifieds
   Autos
  Housing
  Jobs
  Shopping







425 Portland Av. S.
Minneapolis, MN 55488
(612) 673-4000



Company  About the StarTribune Advertising Directory + Contacts Jobs at the StarTribune Newspaper in Education Vita.mn: Entertainment  Subscriber Services  Newspaper Subscriptions Manage Account eEdition Newsletters Mobile RSS Website  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Site Index  Buy Ads  Online Ads Newspaper Ads Classifieds Store  Photographs Article Archives InfoArt Page Reprints Commercial Reprints Permissions  Connect with Us  Contact Us Feedback Become a Fan Follow Us RSS 




© 2011 StarTribune.  All rights reserved.
StarTribune.com is powered by Clickability



Newspaper Subscriptions
eEdition
Mobile
RSS
Newsletters

































 










