2008  July | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Threat Eases as Telegraph Slows To a Crawl
18 comments






Updated totals for the Telegraph Fire:
33,705 Acres -40% Contained -4,448 Fire Personnel -51 dozers- 57 Water Tenders 101 Engines -13 Helicopters -12 Fixed Wing Aircraft- 61 Hand Crews Including 6 Camp Crews
 Projected demobilization start date: August 1, 2008 0800hrs
Today’s observed fire behavior:“North end of the fire is a running surface fire with occasional single tree torching and short range spotting. The remainder of the incident is experiencing moderate fire behavior.
Significant events today:Active fire behavior is primarily in the northern and eastern flanks of the fire. Hwy 140 to Yosemite National Park was restricted for a period of time yesterday; CHP will be escorting traffic through one lane only when air operations is not working in the area. Logistical support is now available at Kassabaum Spike Camp. On 7/30/08 at 0700 operational briefings will be held at both camps. The northern portion of the fire is mow in fuel model 10. The incident is now operating in an Area Command (Hodson), with north and south operational areas. ICT 6 will command the north area and ICT 8 will command the south area. The Merced River will be the operational area break. Fire suppression repair has begun. Some residents in Div A, B, and S were allowed to renter this evening
Actions planned for next operational period:Keep the fire east of Highway 49, north and west of Highway 140 and south of Highway 120. Dozer and hand line will dominate suppression efforts due to the extreme topography and fuels. Air support will be critical in holding efforts. No significant demobilization is planned for 7/31; however plans are in place to demob Type 1 Engines starting on 8/1. Resource orders have be placed to facilitate the demobilization plan. Fire activity may alter this plan”




Posted by Mike
on 07/31/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Maps Branch/Division Indicators
1 comment






Thanks to the “Anon” email, much appreciation. The Telegraph incident working map has been as tightly held for some reason. Eisenhower didn’t enjoy such secrecy!
Click maps to enlarge





Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Midday Numbers Update July 30
Comments Off






The afternoon incident 209 is out and not much has changed since the previous filing posted at midnight.
Acreage is still 32,060 but the fire is now at 40% containment. 3,790 firefighters on scene.
At the moment the Martin Mars air tanker AND Tanker 910 are lining up to make drops over the fire. All three heavy air tankers parked overnight at Fresno are working the fire as well as 2 MAFFS C-130′s waiting in the queue.
Anyone close to the fire is witnessing a quite a show! 13 helicopters and 12 fixed wing aircraft are working the fire today.
 Legend included for Patty, click map to enlarge
Notes from the 209 filed noon July 30–Given the current constraints, when will the chosen management strategy succeed?Likely in the southern area. Still very difficult in the northern area 
Remarks:The communities of Coulterville, Midpines, and Greeley Hill are threatened. El Portal, and Yosemite National Park may be threatened. The fire will continue to cause partial or complete restrictions of Hwy 140 leading to the main entrance to Yosemite National Park. An evacuation center has been established at the Mariposa Elementary School. Kassabaum Spike Camp is now operational. Preliminary damage inspection was conducted by Mariposa County; the incident will continue damage inspection over the next several days.
Significant events today:Active fire behavior is primarily in the northern and eastern flanks of the fire. Hwy 140 to Yosemite National Park was restricted for a period of time yesterday; CHP will be escorting traffic through one lane only when air operations is not working in the area. There was a town hall meeting conducted by command staff in El Portal to inform residents on the current fire status, over a two hundred residents attended. Logistical support is now available at Kassabaum Spike Camp. On 7/30/08 at 0700 operational briefings will be held at both Base Camp and at Kassabaum Spike Camp. Today the northern portion of the fire transitioned from a fuel model 6 to a fuel model 10. The will be transitioning into an area command at 1200. The incident will have a North operations area (ICT 6) and a South operations area (ICT8).
Over the next 12 hours the fire will continue to grow in Branches III.”




Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Kat Country Thinking About Fireline Heroes
Comments Off






 Jim Wells, one of the good guys at Kat Country 103.3fm in Modesto sends a message of good will and an offer to help any way they can to the firefighters working long hours on the Telegraph Fire
In addition to offers of help Jim would like to put a few firefighters on the air to describe what they are dealing with on the fire lines.
Jim can be contacted at KATM.com.




Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Martin Mars Tankers Pay Call On The Telegraph Fire
Comments Off






 The Martin Mars supertankers are set to make drops on the north head of the Telegraph Fire some time today.
Two air attack crafts circling 6,000 ft above the fire were heard discussing plans to use the giant planes to bolster a double wide dozer line on top of (or near) Black Mountain.
The Martin Mars “bird-dog” or lead aircraft is scouting the path of the huge tankers this morning. The lead plane also scouts refilling spots for the tankers. The tankers will dip into Lake Don Pedro to refill their 7,000 gallon tanks. Anyone near the reservoir will be treated to a rare treat today.
The ETA for the Mars craft is approximately 1:30 pm this afternoon.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y6QI8hDpIzs&hl=en&fs=1]
General information-They (tankers) can be in the air in ten minutes and, based on historical data, each can make a drop every fifteen minutes. Working in tandem, this equates to 7,200 US gallons (27,276 litres) every seven minutes and each drop can cover an area of up to 4 acres (1.6 hectares). It has often been said that the Mars, with a 60,000 pound (27,216 kilogram) payload of foam, is like “”a huge wet blanket”. The highly experienced Mars pilots, working closely with the Incident Commander…




Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, air attack, Martin Mars, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Path Moves Away From Mariposa
15 comments






The midnight 209 offers lots of hope for Mariposa County residents. The fire grew by 10% in the last 24 hours to 32,600 acres. Containment is at 20%.
Damage assessment shows 22 homes have been burned, a downward revision from the 25 reported yesterday. 32 outbuilding have been consumed by flames.
Just under 3,800 firefighters are assigned to the incident. 15 firefighters have been injured since the fire began 5 days ago.
Notes from the report;
Today’s observed fire behavior:North end of the fire is a running surface fire with occasional single tree torching. The remainder of the incident is experiencing moderate fire behavior.
Significant events today:Active fire behavior is being observed on the northern and eastern flanks of the fire. Hwy 140 to Yosemite National Park was restricted for a period of time today; CHP will be escorting traffic through one lane only when air operations is not working in the area. Logistical support is now available at Kassabaum Spike Camp. On 7/30/08 at 0700 operational briefings will be held at both Base Camp and at Kassabaum Spike Camp. Today the northern portion of the fire transitioned from a fuel model 6 to a fuel model 10.
Major problems and concerns:There are significant road closures in the area of the fire; specifically Hwy 140 a route to enter Yosemite National Park was completely restricted for a period of time yesterday due to the fire behavior and Air Ops. The power to Yosemite Valley is out. The water supply system for the Mariposa Public Utility District is threatened. The northeast flank of the fire is posing an immediate threat to the Stanislaus/Sierra National Forest within Federal Responsibility Area. Accessibility problems continue to damper suppression efforts due to terrain that is bisected by deep drainages, rock outcroppings and the Merced River Canyon.
Credit good firefighting and expert use of air resources. This fire had hundreds of homes in it’s sights. The LA Times should revise their criticisms of the use of air tankers on fires after reviewing how they were used here.
Well done CalFire, hats off to all air attack and all ground forces!




Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



"I Think We Saved Tassajara" A Fire Story Like No Other
13 comments






Tassajara Mountain Center Director David Zimmerman recounts how he and four fellow “fire-monks” faced the Basin Complex Fire as it swept down canyon from four sides on the afternoon of July 10.
We read about preparations for the fire’s arrival and circumstances that led to the decision to stay, now we are treated to a remarkable recounting of the day flames arrived.
Read the story here of the “Tassajara Five” here.
The monks were denied help from the Forest Service during and after the fire arrived even as helicopters and tankers circled above. I posted on the plight of the Center here and here. They were abandoned, even as they requested help by phone as the fire raged about the compound.
$80,000,000 was spent on the 162,000 acre Basin Complex fire and the Tassajara Mountain Center was the only structure on the entire east side of the massive blaze!




Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Basin Complex, Tassajara
		• Tagged: Basin Complex 


Telegraph Fire Maps Evening July 29
2 comments






GeoMAC and MODIS overlay on Google Earth are synchronized at the moment.


 Click maps to enlarge

This afternoon the convection column was at least as large as any of the four columns visible yesterday. The plume was visible from the parking lot of Gold’s Gym in north Fresno at 3:00 pm today.
Some structure protection strike teams are bedding down in Fresno hotels tonight, more than an hour from the incident base at the Mariposa Fairgrounds. Oakhurst and Mariposa rooms are filled.
Finding rooms for 3,500 firefighters is formidable task.
. 




Posted by Mike
on 07/30/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Maps
7 comments






The map shown below does not include the legend. You must follow this Map Link for a legend description. The map is not a fire perimeter map as much as a definition of evacuation warnings and watches.


Click map images to enlarge.
I’m posting another GeoMAC map with some reservation. The map shows activity that somewhat matches scanner traffic. GeoMAC appears to be much more than an hour behind. Take this as well as all material posted here for what it is. 





Posted by Mike
on 07/29/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, fire maps, Telegraph Fire



Midday July 29 Telegraph Fire Challenges Fire Command
5 comments






“We’re going to be in for a fight” 
This is a direct quote from one Branch Director communicating with another Branch Director minutes ago. This communication follows chatter indicating the slopover I blogged about earlier near Black Mountain was completely lost. 
 



There is reason to believe this fire is still very much in it’s early stages if you try to interpret bits and pieces of radio communication. (edited 1400 hrs July 29, possible misleading commentary, Mike)
 



I put together a few maps from Google Earth. The first map is a view of the Telegraph Fire looking from the north to south. 

 The map below indicates the fire is approaching the Fergusun (sp) landslide on Highway 140. There’s no way to know how accurate MODIS is at this point.
The next map is looking east from Highway 49 towards Yosemite National Park.
This map is an overhead shot looking to the west from over Yosemite Valley.
The afternoon 209 reveals very little news, almost a rubber stamp from the last two. Acreage has not been upgraded. There have been 12 injuries to firefighters since the Telegraph Fire commenced July 25.
Note from afternoon 209-“The communities of Mariposa, Coulterville, Midpines, Mt. Bullion, and Greeley Hill are threatened. The Merced River BLM Wilderness Study area is immediately threatened. Coulterville, Greely Hill, El Portal, and Yosemite National Park maybe threaten. The fire is moving toward the boundaries of the Sierra and Stanislaus National Forests. The fire will continue to cause partial or complete closure of Hwy 140 leading to the main entrance to Yosemite National Park. An evacuation center has been established at the Mariposa Elementary School. Kassabaum Spike Camp will be operational beginning tomorrow at noon. Preliminary damage inspection was conducted by Mariposa County; the incident will continue damage inspection over the next several days.”




Posted by Mike
on 07/29/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Full Air Assault Under Way As Tankers Bomb The Telegraph
4 comments






 Telegraph Air Attack is coordinating a massive air assault on a slopover on the northeast head of the fire in the Merced River drainage. A constant string of heavy air tankers and S-2′s are running back and forth between the fire and McClellan Air Field in Sacramento and Fresno.
The smaller air attack fixed wing aircraft (generally an OV-10A) is constantly circling the fire. As an eye in the sky AA is like a symphony conductor guiding in air tankers and helicopters to specific spots as requested from ground commanders.
No less than 5 air tankers are bombing (pre-treating) the area in front of the advancing flames tying in with dozer lines that were cut in over night. Once the ground has been painted helicopters will be moved in to drop water on hot spots and support ground crews.
As I am writing this Telegraph Fire Air Attack just requested Tanker 66, Tanker 42 and Tanker 11 to launch from Fresno. Simultaneously they requested the two MAFFS C-130 aircraft based out of McClellan to augment the aircraft already working.
Safe flying fellas.




Posted by Mike
on 07/29/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, air attack, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire July 29 Update 29k Acres, 25 Homes
4 comments






The early morning incident report was sobering. Resident were informed at a community meeting that 25 homes have burned so far. 27 outbuilding have been consumed as well. 4,000 homes remain threatened. 9 firefighters have been injured since the fire began on the afternoon of July 25. The fire is 10% contained.
3,458 firefighters are assigned to the Telegraph Fire, half of which are CalFire personnel. A spike camp is being established on the north side of the fire east of Coulterville. Visitors to Yosemite should consider using the south entrance on Highway 41.
 Notes from the morning 209-

“The fire is very active on all flanks. Long distance Spotting has been observed on the north, south and west flanks.
The community of Mariposa is being impacted by the fire at this time. A pre-evacuation advisement was issued to the communities of Midpines and Briceburg. Active fire behavior is being observed in all directions primarily in the south and east flanks near the advisement areas. Hwy 140 to Yosemite National Park was closed for a period of time today; CHP will be escorting traffic through one lane only. There was a town hall meeting in Mariposa to inform residents on the current fire status. Kassabaum Spike Camp will be operational beginning tomorrow at noon.There are significant road closures in the area of the fire; specifically Hwy 140 a route to enter Yosemite National Park was completely closed for a period of time today due to the fire behavior. The power to Yosemite Valley is out. The water supply system for the Mariposa Public Utility District is threatened. The northeast flank of the fire is posing an immediate threat to the Stanislaus/Sierra National Forest within Federal Responsibility Area. Accessibility problems continue to damper suppression efforts due to terrain that is bisected by deep drainages, rock outcrops and the Merced River Canyon. “Maps not to scale and not representative of actual fire perimeter.
Thank you for all the comments. When I get a chance later I will post some of the important links sent by locals regarding damage assessment and impacted addresses




Posted by Mike
on 07/29/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Wow! I'm Putting In For Camp Blogger
9 comments






First I’ll have to conjure up a bid.
The Los Angeles Times fires off part one of a five part series looking into the high costs of fighting fires in California.
I’m envious. Concierge services, (just short of drawn bedding), laundry and catered cuisine dining is tough to read about when we used to lay out a paper sleeping bag on scraped ground after eating MRE’s for dinner.
 
How times have changed.





Posted by Mike
on 07/29/2008 •
		Filed under: firefighter diets



Telegraph Fire Update; 3,173 Firefighters On Scene
10 comments






From the Telegraph Fire midday 209:
*The community of Mariposa is being impacted by the fire at this time. A pre-evacuation advisement was issued to the communities of Midpines and Briceburg. Active fire behavior is being observed in all directions primarily in the south and east flanks near the advisement areas. Hwy 140 to Yosemite National Park most likely to be closed.*There are significant road closures in the area of the fire. The power to Yosemite Valley is out. The water supply system for the Mariposa Public Utility District is threatened. The northeast flank of the fire is posing an immediate threat to the Stanislaus National Forest within Federal Responsibility Area. Accessibility problems continue to damper suppression efforts due to terrain that is bisected by deep drainages, rock outcrops and the Merced River Canyon. *The communities of Mariposa, Midpines and Mt. Bullion are being threatened. John C Freemont Hospital is threatened. The communities of Mariposa, Midpines, Greeley Hill, Coulterville, Bear Valley, and Mt. Bullion Conservation Camp are under an evacuation advisory. Various roads between Mariposa, Midpines and Greeley Hill are under a mandatory evacuation. Communication towers for television and radio as well as repeater sites are threatened. 



Click Images To Enlarge

On a personal note I intended to get close enough to get some photos but stopped short and paid a visit to Hornitos. The smoke was too thick even from there and I saw no point in getting onto Hwy 49 contributing to clogging roads. My general impression is the fire could work up the Merced River drainage east and towards Highway 120 northeast. 
There’s a lot of equipment available to branch directors. With numerous helicopters on scene it’s easier to chase spots before they get too well established. On that subject, according to scanner traffic there are numerous spots developing as the afternoon progresses.
Tanker 910 and other heavies are making drops on the Telegraph. 48 dozers and 89 engines, 41 crews and 30 water tenders round out the manpower on scene.
This is a tough incident to follow. The ICS-209 reports are offered at odd hours and there is nowhere I can find that has official maps of the fire perimeter. MODIS is proving to be slow. I consider the maps I post to be outdated. All the “old media” news outlets seem to be doing is setting up for a remote field report with flame in the background. Not one reporter, (National or Local) has asked a pertinent question!!
Area residents reading this blog should not interpret any information posted here as official.
Update as information becomes available. If anyone has images please send me a note through comment section, thanks! 
Update: CalFire posted (finally) a  Telegraph Incident Map (PDF)  .




Posted by Mike
on 07/28/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Scanner (info/ink)
8 comments






No updates until 4:00 pm as I am in the fire area today. I encourage anyone interested in following the fire to listen on the Telegraph Incident Scanner.
I appreciate all the comments, please keep them coming.




Posted by Mike
on 07/28/2008 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Telegraph Fire Now 26,000 Acres, Minimal Containment
8 comments






The Telegraph fire grew by 40% yesterday to 26,000 acres. Twelve homes have been destroyed. 2,512 firefighters are assigned to the Telegraph with many more en route. Three firefighters have been injured on the Telegraph Fire.
Significant quotes from the most recent Incident Report:
Today’s observed fire behavior
*The fire is very active on all flanks. Spotting has been observed on the active flanks.
*There are significant road closures in the area of the fire. The power to Yosemite Valley is out. The water supply system for the Mariposa Public Utility District is threatened. Repeater sites and Mount Bullion Conservation Camp are threatened. The northeast flank of the fire is posing an immediate threat to the Stanislaus National Forest within Federal Responsibility Area. Accessibility problems continue to damper suppression efforts due to terrain that is bisected by deep drainages, rock outcrops and the Merced River Canyon. 
*Communication towers for television and radio as well as repeater sites are threatened. Damaged 70kv transmission lines have left Yosemite Valley and other areas without power. The sole source watershed for 2,000 Mariposa residents is being compromised. A majority of the BLM Wilderness Study area has burned and the fire threatens the remainder. 
*The communities of Mariposa, Coulterville, Midpines, Mt. Bullion, and Greeley Hill are impacted by the fire. Coulterville, Greely Hill, El Portal, and Yosemite National Park maybe threatened. The fire is moving toward the boundaries of the Sierra and Stanislaus National Forests. The fire may cause the closure of Hwy 140 leading to the main entrance to Yosemite National Park. An evacuation center has been established at the Mariposa Elementary School. The Team is planning to establish a spike camp east of Coulterville in the Greely Hill area. All three reported injuries are minor resulting from lacerations and heat exhaustion.

Updates as information becomes available.




Posted by Mike
on 07/28/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Pace Slowed, Credit Great Firefighting
8 comments






Upon signing out for the day Telegraph Air Attack reported to Telegraph Operations the fire is doing “much better than yesterday“.
He described how earlier in the day they successfully worked from the south then north. He acknowledged he couldn’t see through the smoke to give a final overhead impression of the activity occurring in the east and northeast flanks.
Division R is trying to keep the fire from running in to the Rancheria Creek Road and Colorado Road area just west of Midpines.
The evening 209 is not yet published so no new acreage figures are available.
Here is a video taken by a Mariposa resident yesterday. This is what contributed to the 40,000 ft convection column visible from all points in the Central Valley of California. Ash from the Telegraph Fire covered cars in Fresno and Clovis 50 miles away.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7R-HDf0G_lM&hl=en&fs=1]




Posted by Mike
on 07/28/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire: More Evacuations, Mt Bullion Braces
4 comments






View Larger Map
A hard closure is being requested for Jenkins Hill as numerous residents are sheltering in place. Listening to the scanner feeds, (highly recommended), Branch 1 suggests the “Whitlock” and “Blue Oak Ridge” area is looking active and evacuations may be in order, shortly.
General traffic activity suggests the west side of the fire (Bear Valley) is looking better but fire activity on the east is another story.
Structure protection at Mt Bullion Camp is being beefed up. Crews within Branch 1 are chasing spots, supported by engines and helicopters when available. Some crews have been pulled back to safety zones in a hurry in another division.
Latest report is the fire is moving briskly north/northeast deeper into the Merced River canyon. Further evacuations are being contemplated.
If you choose to listen to the scanner (linked above) you will hear air attack and tactical nets.





Posted by Mike
on 07/27/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Update: 18,000 Acres No Containment
Comments Off






Quick facts;Thirteen structures have been lost including 6 homes.1,922 fire personnel are on scene.18,145 acres burnedZero percent containment

From the recent 209;The northeast end of the community of Mariposa (Avaca Vale, French Camp and Penny Royal Roads) is is being impacted by the fire at this time. A pre-evacuation advisement was issued to the commumities of Midpines and Briceburg. Active fire behavior is being observed in all directions primarily in the south and east flanks near the advisement areas.
The map below shows the active burning areas discussed in the 209. MODIS has not caught up with reported fire movement.
 GeoMAC supports the 209 regarding the active burning areas. GeoMAC also indicates spotting well ahead of the main fire to the north.
 More from the incident report filed midday today:
*Today’s observed fire behavior: The fire has not started major movement at this time, however the fire is very active on the south and east flanks. Spotting has been observed on the active flanks.
*There are significant road closures in the area of the fire. The power to Yosemite Valley is out. The water supply system for the Mariposa Public Utility District is threatened. Repeater sites are threatened. Mount Bullion Conservation Camp is threatened. The northeast flank of the fire is posing an immediate threat to the Stanislaus National Forest within Federal Responsibility Area. Accessibility problems continue to damper suppression efforts due to steep, rocky and isolated terrain. 
*The communities of Mariposa, Coulterville, Greenley Hill may be impacted. The Merced River BLM Wilderness Study area is immediatly threatened. The fire is moving toward the boundaries of the Sierra and Stanislaus National Forests. An evacuation center has been established at the Mariposa Elementary School.




Posted by Mike
on 07/27/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Not Near & No Threat to Yosemite
5 comments






The national cable news channels are headlining the Telegraph Fire as a “Yosemite Fire”.


The fire is burning near and around Mariposa, (population of 1,400, [County 17,000]), 27 miles from Yosemite National Park.



Top local coverage of the Telegraph Fire can be found at the Sierra Sun Times.






Click images to expand.





Posted by Mike
on 07/27/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire Spreads North & South Overnight
2 comments






Information on the Telegraph Fire is tough to obtain this morning. The last incident 209 report was generated at midnight. I cannot find any local bloggers with new information and the local newspaper is relying on reports from Telegraph Fire command to this point.
Some amazing images of the fire can be viewed here.
I wanted to get these maps up with current fire numbers but I’ll update as soon as the 209 is available.
Today is a defining day for this incident.

To view this fire and all active fires nationwide download Google Earth here. The map above is a KML overlay on Google Earth processed by this US Forest Service office.
The image below is generated by GeoMAC. (The Geospatial Multi-Agency Coordination Group) 





Posted by Mike
on 07/27/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire: From 1k to 18k Acres In First 30 Hours
4 comments






The Telegraph Fire is burning in an area that has no recorded fire activity. The fire has the potential to overrun communities. Midpines on Highway 140 and Bear Valley on Highway 49 are the most vulnerable overnight. No one is sleeping with both eyes closed in Mariposa tonight.
Power has been lost in Yosemite Valley.
This is a multi-headed fire with no containment. Resources are pouring in from all points to augment the force of 800 plus already assembled. 600 of the 800 on scene are Cal Fire personnel.This is a State fire so Cal Fire will maintain command unless it moves into Federal land. Even if the Feds. assume command Cal Fire structure protection resources will stay as long as a threat exists.
From the updated 209-
Values at Risk: include communities, critical infrastructure, natural and cultural resources:Next 12 hours: Communities of Midpines, Mariposa, Greeley Hill, Coulterville, Bear Valley, Mt. Bullion Camp 70kv transmission lines that feed the Yosemite Valley are out. Communication towers for television and radio, as well as repeater sites are threatened.Remarks:If the fire continues in the current paths, the communities of Mariposa, Coulterville, Greeley Hill, Midpines,and Bear Valley will be impacted. The Merced River BLM Wilderness Study area is threatened. The fire is moving toward the boundaries of the Sierra and Stanislaus National Forest. An evacuation center has been established at the Mariposa High School.

 Above you can see the fire burning west towards Bear Valley. The fire will make a run downhill towards Bear Valley and try to cross Highway 49. The fire already breached the east side of Highway 140 near Midpines.
Below is the view as seen from Google Earth looking north from Mariposa. (click image to enlarge)
Here is a picture of the ice cap from above at approximately 5:00 pm local time from RAMSDIS. Click the link and then refresh your browser for an updated image. Mariposa is center/right on the image below.





Posted by Mike
on 07/27/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Telegraph Fire: Evacuations Pending In Mariposa County
3 comments






The one day old Telegraph Fire has burned 1,000 acres in Mariposa County. The fire is minimally contained and is presenting accessibility problems for incoming equipment.
The fire is throwing up quite a plume. RAMSDIS offers a very clear satellite image of smoke from all active fires in California.
View Larger Map
From the initial ICS-209
If fire continues in its current paths, the communities of Mariposa, Coulterville, and Greely Hill will be impacted. Currently the Merced River BLM Wild and Senic is threatened and will have fire spread there today.
Evacuation Warning to 150 homes with Potential for warning and advisory to 300 homes. Because of diverse topography dozer line and hand line will dominate efforts. Most significant progress was dozer line construction in Branch III, Telegraph Ridge to Telegraph Peak.
Local Images.More as information becomes available.




Posted by Mike
on 07/26/2008 •
		Filed under: 2008 Fire Season, Telegraph Fire



Firefighter Andrew Palmer Dies In Line Of Duty
Comments Off






Too young!A reminder not all our bravest Americans are serving overseas.
YubaNet reports:
“National Park Service firefighter Andrew Palmer, 18, a firefighter with the Olympic National Park headquartered in Port Angeles, Wash. died while en route to Redding, Calif. this evening. He was being transported for emergency treatment of multiple injuries.Forest Service officials learned of the fatality at approximately 5:45 p.m.
“Each and every member of the firefighting community feels a tragedy of this type. We are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Andrew, who selflessly served to protect,” said Shasta-Trinity National Forest Supervisor Sharon Heywood. “Condolences to the family and friends of Firefighter Andrew Palmer.




Posted by Mike
on 07/26/2008 •
		Filed under: LODD



Forest Service Head Pops In On Basin Complex Fire Camp
Comments Off






 U.S. Forest Service Chief Abigail Kimbell visited the Basin Complex incident base today. Incident Commander Jeanne Pincha-Tulley and her command staff also entertained an incident management team from South Carolina who were flown in to observe.On July 17 Ms. Pincha-Tulley was brought in from another fire to take over for the departing Mike Deitrich.
I stand by my theory she was brought in to smooth out rough edges that emerged between the community and the Deitrich team. These rough edges include the general treatment of Big Sur residents who stayed to defend their homes and more specifically residents of Partington Ridge, Apple Pie Ridge and the Tassajara Mountain Center.
True to form Pincha-Tulley has been visible and available to her firefighters and the community. A person would be hard pressed to find one negative word written about her on any fire she has managed.
 So it’s not surprising Ms. Kimbell is calling on the Pincha-Tulley camp. The California Interagency Incident command Team 3 (CIIMT3) operates a model USFS camp.
Read how Jeanne Pincha-Tulley earned the respect of the residents of Ketchum Idaho last year here.(Image as part of linked article)





Posted by Mike
on 07/26/2008 •
		Filed under: Basin Complex
		• Tagged: Basin Complex 
 

Next »



 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















