Massively




 




 



 | Mail | 
You might also like: WoW Insider, Joystiq, and more


More Sites You Might Like

Massively
Engadget
Engadget HD
Engadget Mobile
TUAW


Autoblog
Autoblog Green
TechCrunch
WoW Insider
URLesque


Games.com
Comics Alliance
Sports News
MMA Fighting
Politics Daily




Login / Register






Email address:
Password: (Forgot?)

Username:

Login Cancel






 

Massively


Free to play
Sci-fi
Fantasy
Heroes
Kids
Virtual
Misc







 
  




Main
Games
Beta
Contests
Columns
Podcasts
Community

About




Feedback
RSS
Steam
Twitter



  



Star Trek Online 
F2P
›
Boldly going F2P:
Cryptic aims for 2011 relaunch 
›
Make it so:
STO's F2P plans outlined 



Fallen Earth 
F2P
›
Free wasteland:
FE goes F2P on October 12th
›
F2P matrix:
What to expect from the F2P conversion



Star Wars 
The Old Republic
›
Warzone hands-on:
Our impressions of SWTOR's PvP
›
Testing delays:
European beta is postponed
›
An eye on WoW:
SWTOR is watching the competition



Guild Wars 2 
Infodump
›
Guilds in GW2:
Pros and cons of open guild membership
›
PAX hands-on:
Trying out an Asura at PAX Prime
›
GW2 impressions:
Our GW2 travel diary from PAX



Opinions  Everyone's got one
›
Groupthink:
Why endgame grouping sucks
›
Double-dipping:
Subs and cash shops don't mesh
›
Sandboxes:
Not dead yet
›
Free-to-pay:
The F2P vs. freemium debate



Livestream  September 5 - 11
›
MV Guide:
A guide to our livestreaming schedule for the week










  









The Daily Grind: How do you deal with class...


Week in Review: Smuggle this



EVE Evolved: Expansions, not excuses

 



>

 
  



The Daily Grind: How do you deal with class overload? 
by Brianna Royce  (33 minutes ago)
Sci-fi, Classes, Guilds, Opinion, Free-to-play, The Daily Grind, Star Wars: The Old Republic, Miscellaneous
5




As my guild gets around to signing up on the official Star Wars: The Old Republic website in the hopes that we can join the game as a group during the pre-order access phase, we're slowly coming to the realization that we kinda like playing the same class. As in, most of us. As in, more than half of us are planning to play Smugglers at launch, which makes for an awesome themed guild but doesn't really help us much in terms of class balance when it comes to actually putting groups together and running content.

Granted, the new wave of MMOs is doing away with rigid class restrictions and holy trinities, but that doesn't mean all need for balance is dead and gone. So how do you deal with a class overload in your gaming groups? Do you embrace the theme or hope players' desire to be a unique snowflake will help them spread out their choices? Do you impose limits on classes and force people to diversify? Or do you figure your friends will figure it out on their own once they can't form a balanced group out of four Han Solos?

Every morning, the Massively bloggers probe the minds of their readers with deep, thought-provoking questions about that most serious of topics: massively online gaming. We crave your opinions, so grab your caffeinated beverage of choice and chime in on today's Daily Grind!







 








 



Week in Review: Smuggle this 
by Brianna Royce  (12 hours ago)
Massively meta, Week in Review, Miscellaneous
7




At the end of every week, we round up the best and most popular news stories, exclusive features, and insightful columns published on Massively and then present them all in one convenient place. Miss a big MMO or WoW Insider story last week? You've come to the right post.

This week, Star Wars: The Old Republic managed to steal the limelight with delays for the European beta and a lack of beta this weekend for everyone else. Only SWTOR could pull that off! Fortunately, BioWare occupied fans with a Smuggler video, a beta FAQ obviously intended to rival War and Peace, and unsurprising news that the company is studying its biggest competitor.

Skip past the break for a run-down of this week's other top MMO posts.
                                        Continue Reading







 








 




EVE Evolved: Expansions, not excuses 
by Brendan Drain  (14 hours ago)
Sci-fi, EVE Online, Culture, Expansions, Lore, MMO industry, Opinion, EVE Evolved
22




Over the last few months, the phrase "Flying in Space" has been increasingly used by both EVE Online's developers and its players to describe features other than those of Incarna. It seems like a redundant phrase as all of EVE's gameplay currently takes place in space, but the distinction has become necessary when discussing the allocation of development resources. Members of EVE's player-elected Council of Stellar Management have recently spearheaded a wave of new complaints about the level of resources dedicated to EVE's in-space features, claiming that developers have been left without the resources necessary to do a good job.

In the previous three EVE Evolved columns, I discussed the upcoming nullsec revamp scheduled to begin this winter and the incredible new gameplay players might get as part of it. Members of the CSM know exactly how many people will be working on that revamp, and although those numbers haven't been made public, several delegates have gone public with their disapproval. EVE's subscription fees are currently paying for the development of CCP's upcoming fantasy MMO World of Darkness and its ambitious console MMOFPS DUST 514, leaving few resources for new EVE gameplay and content.

In this week's EVE Evolved, I look back at the success of EVE's first blockbuster expansion and ask why development on EVE Online has dramatically decreased over the past two and a half years.
                                        Continue Reading







 








 



One Shots: Maybe she'll sing! 
by Rubi Bayer  (16 hours ago)
Galleries, Screenshots, Free-to-play, One Shots, Free Realms, Family
5




We're wrapping up the week on a bit of a high note thanks to Massively's very own Karen, who couldn't resist joining in on the fun with a Free Realms screenshot. The image itself was funny (and kind of icky) and got even funnier once Karen explained, "I'm paying homage to Lady Gaga."

That's it for this week, and we're ready to move on to starting zone week! First impressions are a big deal, so many developers put a lot into that first zone you see. Show us a screenshot of your favorite starting zone -- add your name and a little bit about the image, send it in to oneshots@massively.com, and we'll feature it in next week's One Shots!
One Shots: 2011







 








 



Rise and Shiny recap: Drakensang Online 
by Beau Hindman  (18 hours ago)
Fantasy, Video, Previews, Opinion, Free-to-play, Browser, Hands-on, Rise and Shiny, Livestream
9




This week I was excited to spend some more time exploring Drakensang Online, the latest version in the long-running RPG series. I'd barely touched anything from the previous games, so I was blissfully unaware of what to expect from this one. I knew that Bigpoint was involved, so I had a feeling that the cash shop would be controversial but very convenient. I had also viewed screenshots and watched videos from before, so I was ready to see just how it would run on a basic laptop with three gigs of ram.

The experience turned out more or less as expected, but it did throw me a few curveballs. Click past the cut and let's talk all about it.
                                        Continue Reading



Source: Drakensang Official Site, Crystal Saga Launch Page




 









 



The Anvil of Crom: Evaluating the dev update - crafting edition 
by Jef Reahard  (20 hours ago)
Fantasy, Age of Conan, Game mechanics, Opinion, Free-to-play, The Anvil of Crom, Crafting
6




Hallelujah, amen, and by frickin' Crom! What's got me all excitable this week? Well, the latest dev update, for starters, and I apologize in advance for reneging on last week's promise to devote today's column to a deeper examination of the new Savage Coast of Turan content. The last time we met, I gave you a quick rundown on the Ardashir Coast, but with all due respect to Funcom's content designers, the most interesting bit of Age of Conan news from the last little while is the crafting revamp that Silirrion hinted at in the August 31st update letter.

But Jef, how interesting could it be if it's taken you over a week to write about it? Well, you got me there, and I could throw in some excuses about needing to get something Turan-related out last week, as well as the fact that I was doing the DragonCon shuffle, but I won't.

Anyhow, holy shitaki mushrooms! Funcom mentioned AoC's tradeskills! Join me after the cut and bring the smelling salts.
                                        Continue Reading







 








 




Mortal Online update expanding territory control features 
by Jef Reahard  (21 hours ago)
Fantasy, Game mechanics, MMO industry, PvP, News items, Mortal Online
20




Mortal Online's sandbox is about to get a bit sandier if a new territory control update video is any indication. The fantasy title from Star Vault has had a rough time in the court of public opinion since its June 2010 launch, but development continues apace.

The latest patch brings control structures to the table, and according to the video intertitles, said structures can be placed anywhere near territory that you already control. Occupied land then earns taxes and control points for its owners, and control points may be spent "to further increase the area of any of your control structures, increase their abilities, or build more of them."

City control is possible with the new update, as is the collection of guild points after completing "various deeds." Star Vault says that the guild points can be used for a number of actions including outlawing players in your territory or declaring martial law. Check out the video after the break and head to the official Mortal Online website for more details.
                                        Continue Reading



Source: Mortal Online website




 









 



Global Chat: September 3-10, 2011 
by Rubi Bayer  (22 hours ago)
Massively meta, Global Chat, Miscellaneous
10




Welcome to this week's Global Chat! We love hearing what you have to say at Massively, and we love it even more when we can share the best comments with all of our readers. Massively staffers will be contributing some of their favorite comments every week, so keep an eye out every Sunday for more Global Chat!

We're all about comparing communities this week on Global Chat -- free-to-play vs. pay-to-play communities as well as PvE and PvP. As an added bonus, we've got a laugh to share from a Massively contest winner. Follow along after the jump to see what some of our readers had to say this week, then lend your voice to the discussion!
                                        Continue Reading







 








 



The Daily Grind: What F2P game should offer a sub? 
by Eliot Lefebvre  (1 day ago)
Business models, MMO industry, Opinion, Free-to-play, Miscellaneous
75




Free-to-play games, with or without a subscription option, have become the business model darling of the MMOsphere. There's no shortage of games that have switched over to the model, and certainly no dearth of games in testing and preparing for launch that do the same. But there are games whose free-to-play nature either doesn't quite fit or actively hampers enjoyment, such as the Allods Online death penalty, which many players felt enforced a de facto subscription price.

Naturally, designers need to give players some incentives to drop money on the game -- you can't run an MMO for free, and most designers like to live indoors and not get eaten by wolves. But is there a game where you feel the core game would be improved if it didn't need a price tag mechanic? Is there a game among the legions of free-to-play titles that you'd rather see as a subscription title?

Every morning, the Massively bloggers probe the minds of their readers with deep, thought-provoking questions about that most serious of topics: massively online gaming. We crave your opinions, so grab your caffeinated beverage of choice and chime in on today's Daily Grind!







 








 



Luvinia Online celebrates open beta with an exclusive giveaway on Massively! 
by Rubi Bayer  (1 day ago)
Fantasy, Contests, Free-to-play, Giveaways
11




Luvinia Online began open beta this week, effectively putting the welcome mat out for all and sundry. Even better, Outspark has arranged for a little welcome gift for Massively readers who wish to take a look at the game.

We've got codes for a free 14-day mount in Luvinia Online, but you get to choose the color! Pictured above is the light brown Harriet bunny mount, an exclusive item that you can only get from Massively. If you'd like something a little more brightly colored, there's also a pink version. We've got two separate giveaway pages, so you can choose your color.

To get your Harriet mount, visit the page of your choice, either the brown Harriet or the pink Harriet. Get your code, then enter it at Outspark's redemption page. When you log into Luvinia Online, you'll find your mount in your in-game gift box. Enjoy!










 








 



The Mog Log: Point by point 
by Eliot Lefebvre  (1 day ago)
Fantasy, Final Fantasy XI, Classes, Game mechanics, Opinion, Consoles, Final Fantasy XIV, The Mog Log
15




Physical levels are leaving Final Fantasy XIV. We've all known that for a while, to the point that I even wrote a column speculating, in part, about what will happen to the whole bonus point system once that change goes live. As it turns out, what will happen for the time being is that it will be abandoned altogether, with character development going automated until at least 1.20. No more allocation of points to attributes any longer, and no word on what this will mean for the many traits designed to muck about with attribute distribution.

This is going to result in a bit of a downgrade for some players (if you're physical 40 and leveling something at rank 10, for instance), but by and large it's also going to help correct a longstanding issue that the game has had. We've got a lot more options for playing around with attributes and abilities when it comes to FFXIV than we did in Final Fantasy XI, but the downside of the breadth has been the simple problem that no one knows what the attrbute values actually mean. You know the number, but the number itself is pretty much meaningless.
                                        Continue Reading







 








 



Funcom teases Age of Conan's Turan content with new trailer 
by Jef Reahard  (1 day ago)
Fantasy, Trailers, Video, Age of Conan, Game mechanics, MMO industry, News items, Free-to-play, Dungeons
10




If you haven't taken the plunge on Age of Conan's new Savage Coast of Turan adventure pack yet, you can still get a good look at the new location thanks to a developer video recently posted by PC Gamer.

The clip runs for over six minutes and is narrated by Funcom's Craig Morrison, otherwise known by his forum handle Silirrion and for his deeds as AoC's game director. The video hits all the adventure pack's highlights, and Morrison says that the dev team set out to offer something for everyone in the form of new solo instances, a group dungeon, and a large quest-driven playfield.

The video also delves into a bit of the lore behind the Persian-themed Ardashir coast region and mentions the cross-over between the recent Conan the Barbarian film and several of the storylines and characters that players will encounter in their adventures. See all the sights after the cut.
                                        Continue Reading







 









 



One Shots: Aren't you a little warm in that? 
by Rubi Bayer  (1 day ago)
Fantasy, Galleries, Screenshots, One Shots, RIFT
17




Today's One Shots entry, courtesy of RIFT, features armor that isn't necessarily ugly so much as searingly inappropriate for the environment. Crafting levels coincided with game progress to plop this Mage down in Scarlet Gorge clad head-to-toe in heavy wool robes, boots, gloves, and so on. The fire rift blazing away in the background isn't helping matters.

It's ugly armor week on One Shots, so whether you have an eye-searing color scheme, a set of armor pieces that clash like crazy, or something that you just put together for a laugh, we want to see.

Next week we'll be revisiting starting zones, so if you want to get a jump on things, grab a screenshot of your favorite starting zone and send it in to oneshots@massively.com and we'll feature it in next week's One Shots!
One Shots: 2011







 








 



Older gamers more likely to drop money in cash shops to save time 
by Eliot Lefebvre  (1 day ago)
Business models, Culture, News items, Free-to-play, Miscellaneous
97




How long are you willing to wait for your next level in a given game? According to a recent study, the older you are, the less likely you'll wait and the more likely you'll be to just whip out a credit card and buy an experience booster. Flurry Analytics conducted a survey of mobile and social gamers and found that older players are far more likely to just spend some money if it'll save some painful grinding in the long run.

While the study was focused on the social gaming side of the coin, the business model is not dissimilar from that employed by many free-to-play MMOs that frequently offer in-game options to earn items that can also be purchased outright. And the logical conclusion is drawn -- younger players have less disposable income but more time to buckle down and grind, while older players have more responsibilities and more free money to spend. It's an interesting look at the spending patterns, one which looks to be increasingly relevant as free-to-play options continue to multiply.
                                        
					
					

					 
				


Source: MSNBC: Older gamers more willing to pay to play




 








 



The Tattered Notebook: A grizzled veteran goes free-to-play 
by Karen Bryan  (1 day ago)
Fantasy, EverQuest II, Free-to-play, Hands-on, The Tattered Notebook
34




It's been almost a year now since EverQuest II Extended was officially launched, and I've resented every minute of its existence. From the moment it was first announced, on the eve of Fan Faire 2010, EQ2X has been my own personal Newman of the MMO world. It dominated the discussions at Fan Faire and put a damper on everyone's fun. And once it launched, it always seemed to be at the root of every problem. New invites to our guild on the live server dropped to just one in eight months (and that one invite was a real-life friend of a guildmate). The promised marketing campaign for EQII live got the shaft in favor of pushing the new free-to-play service. Forum snafus during the Velious beta were all because of the EQ2X forums. While thousands and thousands crammed the Freeport server and frolicked for free, I languished on the live server and even began to empathize with the Grinch.

But now that EQ2X is almost a year old, I decided it's time for me to bury the hatchet and pay a visit to the free-to-play server. I rolled up a new character on a bronze account, and over the next several weeks, I'll be taking a close look at EverQuest II Extended. It's a journey in EQII free-to-play through the eyes of a longtime player. Read on for my first arrival!
                                        Continue Reading







 








 



EverQuest video features new zone from Veil of Alaris expansion 
by Jef Reahard  (1 day ago)
Fantasy, Trailers, Video, EverQuest, Expansions, Game mechanics, MMO industry, Patches, News items
8




EverQuest's latest content bomb was announced earlier this summer, and Sony Online Entertainment is slowly trickling out the details for the new Veil of Alaris patch. The game's 18th expansion will take players to a land long hidden by magic, and a new video gives us our first glimpse of the environment itself along with some of its ornerier inhabitants.

Players will initially encounter the zone while traveling on a giant airship, and among the challenges are mobs made of molten steel as well as deadly free-floating swords.

SOE's video clip features game designer David Stewart and environment artist Shannon Parnell discussing their work on the new zone, as well as various fly-through angles of the finished product. Check out all the details after the break.
                                        Continue Reading







 









 



WRUP: Let's class this place back up edition 
by Eliot Lefebvre  (1 day ago)
Massively meta, Miscellaneous
16




I'm very sorry that last week's power-related antics resulted in the absence of my usual intro in your weekly installment of WRUP. But this week, we're bringing back the awesome. We're going to kick things up again. We've got some explosions going on up there, and they've got nothing to do with anything, and maybe later in this feature I'll start talking about something arbitrary and Dadaist. And we'll respectfully decline comment on the agendas of the squat and minute races of the world from last week.

Where was I? Oh, right, WRUP. It's time for that again, and this week, just like always, we're going to talk about what the Massively staff will be playing over the week. But let's still class it up with some nice new headers, hmm? And let's talk about the available content in free-to-play games, while we're at it. And just to make it super-classy, we'll even invite you to leave your own weekend plans in the comments. Classy!
                                        Continue Reading







 








 



The Daily Grind: What's the worst guild death you've witnessed? 
by Eliot Lefebvre  (2 days ago)
Culture, Guilds, Opinion, The Daily Grind, Miscellaneous
30




No guild lasts forever. Whether you're part of a small roleplaying fleet in Star Trek Online or a large endgame guild in RIFT, you know going in that the organization is eventually going to cease to be. But that doesn't tell you much about how the guild is going to fall apart when it finally does, and that can make all the difference.

Some guilds die quietly, with most of the members having moved on. Some are shut down with an understanding that the group of a whole is moving on or just isn't interested in managing a guild any longer. Other times -- and more memorably -- the guild's death is a loud and uncomfortable affair, with drama flaring up and turning the final few weeks into the equivalent of an in-game divorce.

And that's just the least of the ways in which a player organization can exit stage left. If you've been playing MMOs for any real length of time, of course, you've seen at least one or two guilds evaporate. So what's the worst death that you've seen? Long? Short? Angry? Calm? Or just a slow wasting followed by a disbanding?

Every morning, the Massively bloggers probe the minds of their readers with deep, thought-provoking questions about that most serious of topics: massively online gaming. We crave your opinions, so grab your caffeinated beverage of choice and chime in on today's Daily Grind!







 








 



Istaria publishes September content update, looks to the future 
by Jef Reahard  (2 days ago)
Fantasy, Classes, Events, in-game, Game mechanics, MMO industry, Patches, News items, Free-to-play, Sandbox, Dungeons
16




A few days ago we told you about some sandbox games that are worth your time, money, and in most cases, both. We're also ashamed to admit that we overlooked one of the more unique free-form MMORPGs in existence. That MMORPG is Istaria: Chronicles of the Gifted, and the devs have recently dropped a pretty extensive content update on the long-running fantasy game.

Aside from the usual bug-fixing and quest tweaks, the September patch added a new high-level region called Winter Vale and a revamp of the game's portal system. That's just for starters, too, since the Istaria devs are hard at work on the new Helian's Tomb mini-dungeon and quest series as well as the return of seasonal events.

Finally, there are several network and game client optimization projects in the works, including new launcher functionality and character management options. In short, there's never been a better time to return to (or discover) the world of Istaria. If you're curious, the game client is free to download, and you can also partake of an unlimited 14-day free trial or a feature-limited free-to-play option. Oh, and did we mention that you can build your own town and play as a dragon?

[Thanks to Paul for the tip!]
                                        
					
					

					 
				


Source: Istaria website




 








 



Patch 1.19 bringing leve reset changes for Final Fantasy XIV 
by Eliot Lefebvre  (2 days ago)
Fantasy, Game mechanics, Patches, News items, Consoles, Final Fantasy XIV
18




The reset timer for leves has long been a point of contention for Final Fantasy XIV players, with the 36-hour interval feeling rather stifling at the best of times. But that system is being changed, and while there will still be limitations on how many leves a player can have at one time, the restrictions will be greatly lessened. The new system has just been outlined on the official site, with a new 12-hour timer for resets being just the tip of the metaphorical iceberg.

At each 12-hour reset, players will be given an opportunity to acquire four new leves, with up to 99 total allowances stacking. These resets are shared across all leve types, ensuring that players will always have full access to content of an appropriate level for whatever classes they care to level. There's also a new evaluation system in place that allows players to acquire new leves based on recent history, replacing the old evaluation system with the promise of further content enhancements. While 1.19 doesn't yet have a release date on the table, most players will likely be excited enough by the promise of an easier and more straightforward system for leveling any chosen discipline.
                                        
					
					

					 
				


Source: Guildleve reset adjustments




 








 


Next Page

 


 





 


Breaking News

SOE's services disrupted by massive California blackout [Updated]



The most popular postsin the last 7 days
[Updated] Guild Wars 2 Charr plushies on sale now, but you can win one free from Massively! 290 commentsSWTOR shows us how to level like a Smuggler 116 commentsBigpoint says game publishers should sell in-game advantages 105 commentsOlder gamers more likely to drop money in cash shops to save time 97 commentsStar Wars: The Old Republic is keeping a close eye on World of Warcraft 80 comments



Release Dates


Name
Date


Star Wars: TOR Beta

September 2011


LotRO: Rise of Isengard

September 27, 2011


APB: Reloaded Launch

Q4 2011


ArcheAge U.S. Launch

2011


City of Heroes Freedom

2011


Moonlight Online Launch

2011


The Secret World Launch

April 2012


PlanetSide 2 Launch

2012


TERA U.S. Launch

2012


Transformers Universe Launch

2012


World of Darkness Launch

2012






Massively Staff



Shawn Schuster

Editor-in-Chief


Brianna Royce
Senior Editor


Rubi Bayer
Community Manager


Beau Hindman
Contributing Editor 


Brendan Drain
Contributing Editor


Eliot Lefebvre
Contributing Editor


Jef Reahard
Contributing Editor 


Justin Olivetti
Contributing Editor


Larry Everett
Contributing Editor


Matt Daniel
Contributing Editor


Brandon Felczer
Columnist


Edward Marshall
Columnist


Jeremy Stratton
Columnist


Karen Bryan
Columnist


MJ Guthrie
Columnist


Patrick Mackey
Columnist




Massively Speaking Podcast

 Massively Speaking Episode 164: Dragon*Con 2011
Latest episode: Wednesday, September 7th, 2011
 


View featured video →

 


View featured screenshots →




 
 
 



Engadget
  Crickey! Nokia's N9 goes up for preorder in ...
 Sinch takes aim at headphone tangles, we go ...
 White PS3 coming to Europe and Australia in ...
 


Joystiq
  Japanese hardware sales, August 29 - September 4: ...
 The Joystiq Indie Pitch: To-Fu: The Trials of Chi ...
 Trenched renamed Iron Brigade worldwide ...
 


WoW
  Breakfast Topic: What happened to the mouse? ...
 The Light and How to Swing It: Synergizing with ...
 Know Your Lore, Tinfoil Hat Edition: The curious ...
 


TUAW
  Daily iPhone App: Tiny Heroes ...
 New OS X 10.7.2 seed posted ...
 Talkcast tonight, 7pm PT/10pm ET: Ihnatko ...
 



AOL Tech

Joystiq
&copy 2011 AOL Inc. All rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Trademarks | AOL A-Z HELP | Advertise With Us




 







 
