
	Crews make gains against raging blaze in Texas  | Tulsa World

































READ TODAY'S STORIES AND E-EDITION



SUBSCRIBE | 
	                    CONTACT US | 
                        SIGN IN

















News |
                    Sports |
                    Business | 
                    Scene | 
                    Opinion | 
                    Obits |
                    Blogs |                     
                    Comics |
                    Photos |
                    Videos | 
                    Weather |
                    Jobs |
                    Autos |
                    Homes |
                    Classifieds |
                    Search


















Local
CrimeWatch
State
U.S./World
Courts
Government
Education
Health
Religion
Transitions
Special Projects
Databases





 





















                Your bookmark will appear on your Profile page.  Please give it a title,
                and short description so that visitors to your page will understand where
                the bookmark leads.
                




Bookmark Title : 





 


Bookmark Text : 





 












Crews make gains against raging blaze in Texas 






This photo provided by Texas Parks and Wildlife shows a fire burning in Bastrop State Park in Bastrop, Texas. CHASE A. FOUNTAIN/Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation/AP Photo




By JIM VERTUNO & MICHAEL GRACZYK Associated Press

Published: 9/7/2011  8:09 AM

Last Modified: 9/7/2011  8:44 AM




BASTROP, Texas — Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-fueled blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving a trail of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.



At least two people have died in the wildfire, which has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin, the state capital.




Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.




The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.




Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday, and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts.




"Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.




The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.




Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop.




"Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything," Perry said after the tour. "The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning."




White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.




About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons (5,600 liters) of lake water at a time also helped.




The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.




At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres (400 hectares) Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles (65 kilometers) northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre (2,800-hectare) fire burned in heavy timberland.




Michael Graczyk reported from Houston. Also contributing to this story were Associated Press reporters Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas, Betsy Blaney in Lubbock, Will Weissert in Austin, Paul Weber in San Antonio, and AP Photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop.



By JIM VERTUNO & MICHAEL GRACZYK Associated Press





Other Tulsa World US & World Stories






 

&nbsp
DNC ad campaign to promote Obama jobs plan









 

&nbsp
America memorializes events, loss of 9/11









 

&nbsp
Tea party eager for debate









 

&nbsp
Pilot and stock-car racer Betty Skelton dies at 85




















Reader Comments


3 Total








Show: 
Newest First





Learn About Our Comment Policy















Report Comment
cybercitizen
(4 days ago)


						Mr Perry God is sending you a message.  Are you listening?Global warming - it's what's for dinner.
					












Report Comment
checks and balances
(4 days ago)


						Probably shouldn't be cutting the budget to the agency fighting the fires, but exploiting cheap labor is the Texas creed.
					












Report Comment
true2form
(4 days ago)


						Yep. Cut funding to your volunteer firefighters by 75% and istead attend a prayer rally asking God for rain.Now THAT'S Perry's idea of modern conservatism.Well,until he complains he's not getting enough help and goes begging the feds.
					






3 comments displayed







In order to post a comment on this page, you must sign in to Tulsaworld.com.  If you do not have a site account, you can create an account for free.

You must be logged in to post a comment.






Submitting your comment, please wait...































Most Popular Stories





             
                    Most Viewed
                



                    Most Commented
                













1. 
Three Oklahoma soldiers killed in Afghanistan






2. 
Couple marries at last after wedding delayed by bride's aneurism






3. 
9/11 programs on television on Sunday






4. 
Second shooting at Tulsa bar leaves more victims






5. 
Oklahoma legislative panel to examine federal health care reform law






6. 
Man robbed at Tulsa hotel on Sunday night






7. 
Tulsa police respond to two home invasions on Sunday






8. 
Hundreds attend local 9/11 observance event






9. 
Lawmakers mostly get meals from lobbyists, analysis of agency records shows






10. 
77 Americans wounded in Afghan truck bombing 






11. 
9-11-01: The Families






12. 
Cliff Robertson, actor who portrayed John Kennedy, dies at 88






13. 
Victim's story sheds light on human trafficking






14. 
All lanes on Will Rogers Turnpike reopened






15. 
Tulsan tells of surviving 9/11 attack






16. 
Boren: Cherokees should get HUD funding






17. 
Tulsa City Council discord may play role in Tuesday's primaries






18. 
What happened on Sept. 11






19. 
Texas man dies in single-car crash






20. 
Smith and Baker made loans to campaigns








1. 
Majority of Oklahoma Congress members don't find much good in Obama's jobs proposals






2. 
Obama pressed on jobs proposals






3. 
Obama unveils $450 billion jobs plan






4. 
Jenks student arrested for allegedly possessing drugs, weapon






5. 
Romney, Perry spar over jobs, Social Security 






6. 
AP sources: No sign of US entry for terror plot






7. 
Palin rails against Obama






8. 
Union, Jenks school districts file lawsuit on vouchers






9. 
Romney, Perry spar over jobs at GOP debate






10. 
Cherokee Nation's HUD funding frozen over freedman decision






11. 
Argument over sausage sales spurs abuse allegations






12. 
White House aide: Time for Congress to act on jobs 






13. 
Hearing postponed for woman accused of killing husband






14. 
Immigration cases may see delays as deportations prioritized






15. 
Obama says GOP must back U.S. first, create jobs






16. 
Three Oklahoma soldiers killed in Afghanistan






17. 
Tulsa homicide detective is sought in domestic assault case






18. 
Lawmakers mostly get meals from lobbyists, analysis of agency records shows






19. 
Obama leaves Washington to promote jobs plan






20. 
Man forces way into house, threatens two children and grandparents with knife






 


View the Top 50




These are the most viewed stories in the last 24 hours.
























Home | 
Contact Us | 
Search | 
Subscribe | 
Customer Service |
About | 
Advertise  |
Privacy

Copyright © 2011, World Publishing Co. All rights reserved.






