
	Texas Forest Service











ONE MILLION TREES PROJECT









[ Print | 

 ]




   
Award of Excellence - Business Partnership Award
Alcoa Sandow and Three Oaks Mines and Down Home Ranch
When you think of Alcoa, you think of Reynolds Wrap but that is really just the beginning of this large multi-national corporation with 131,000 employees and $23.5 billion in revenues last year. Alcoa is more than even these impressive statistics - It is a responsible corporate citizen. Alcoa began the “One Million Trees” project in the spring of 1998 as a tree-planting program to provide its employees with the opportunity to plant trees.  This program now serves as a catalyst for local volunteer groups in the planting, growing, and maintenance of trees in urban and rural communities and along our nation’s highways.
Sandow and Three Oaks Mine took their “One Million Tree” project one step further. Alcoa entered into a partnership with one of the mine’s neighbors - the Down Home Ranch, a local non-profit organization for kids and adults with special needs. Through this innovative partnership, Alcoa provides monthly payments to DHR, and DHR provides 50,000 seedlings for reclamation planting and 1,400 one-gallon trees to distribute to Alcoa employees each year. The residents of DHR raise tree seedlings from locally gathered acorns and seeds. To date, 10,150 trees have been planted locally by Alcoa employees and charities. Trees grown in addition to the Mine’s needs are sold by DHR, creating a profitable enterprise.
This partnership between Alcoa Sandow Mine and DHR is a win-win-win situation - Alcoa needs trees for its reclamation program, local communities need more trees for beautification, and DHR needs financial support and gainful employment for its residents.
Corporate partnerships such as the Alcoa / Down Home Ranch partnership forge positive, identifiable links between environmental stewardship and sustainable job creation for the community. These links, in turn, help to improve communications between the mine and its neighbors.  All the while providing attractive trees for the surrounding communities and supporting the spirit of volunteerism and promoting community involvement.








