
	Texas Forest Service











THE CROSS TIMBERS: A NATURAL WONDER









[ Print | 

 ]




  
Award of Excellence - Public Awareness Project
“The Cross Timbers: A Natural Wonder” Cross Timbers Urban Forestry Council
OK. Here’s a question for you: “How do you cook-up an effective and economical program in a 17 county region that will increase interest in urban and community forestry?” Give up? Well, if you are the Cross Timbers Urban Forestry Council, you mix a little dab on money with a very talented graphic artist named Diana MacPhail, a dedicated scientist like Dr. Richard Francaviglia of the University of Texas at Arlington and author of the book, The Cast Iron Forest: A Natural History of the Timbers; and mix in some dedicated volunteers from the Cross Timber Urban Forestry Council like Emily Gilpin to Voila! you create a traveling educational exhibit entitled “The Cross Timbers: A Natural Wonder.”
The exhibit shows what makes the Cross Timbers unique - its geology, topography, ecology, climate and the influence of human development from pre-history to moden times.  Since this past February the exhibit has been viewed by over 6,000 folks in 8 sites including libraries, City Halls, Botanic gardens, tree conferences, and colleges in the region.
Like the Ents in Lord of the Rings, these trees get around. This traveling education exhibit consists of the Cross Timbers display along with auxiliary, interactive teaching components for use by educators. The display features a lightweight, modular design that is easy to assemble and transport. An Exhibit Brochure provided with the display, provides more background information about the Cross Timbers.
Materials developed also include a Teacher Information Packet, a Leaf Bingo Game, a Cross Timbers Word Search, and a Cross Timbers Word Hunt. The educational materials were designed to address the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS). An evaluation form for both the exhibit and the educational materials are also provided. Hey! How come they didn’t have this kind of stuff when I was in school?
This traveling exhibit will take several years to make the rounds of the region. This will provide the CTUFC with continued opportunities to reach out to organizations and people it has not worked with before. It certainly answers the burning question “How do you increase interest in urban and community forestry in a 17 county region?”
The native Cross Timbers are challenged by rapid population growth and urban development, “The Cross Timbers: A Natural Wonder” educational exhibit will serve as a way to remind residents that the natural world surrounds them and is worthy of conservation and care.








