
	Texas Forest Service











ROLLING HILLS TREE FARM VOLUNTEER FORESTERS









[ Print | 

 ]




   
Award of Excellence - Student Project
“Rolling Hills Tree Farm Volunteer Foresters”
Castleberry High School Community-Based Instruction Students, Fort Worth, Texas
Amazing people doing amazing things – that’s what this award is all about. Last spring 6 students and 3 coaches from the Community-Based Instruction program of Castleberry High School joined with the City of Fort Worth Forestry Section to do volunteer work at the Rolling Hills Tree Farm. Duties included repotting trees from 1-gallon to 5-gallon containers, weeding, cleaning and organizing stock in the greenhouses and in the lathe areas. These students are Special Education students who were motivated and worked hard, never complained, and were always happy to learn new skills. They made a noticeable impact on the operation of the Tree Farm. Staff was very pleased with the productivity, disciplined work ethic, and cheerful disposition of the students and coaches.
For several weeks, the CBI students volunteered their time and skills at the Tree Farm. The Community-Based Instruction lives up to its name because the community helps the students learn work skills and proper work habits through volunteer experiences at local businesses. The goal is to provide a partnership of learning and benefit for the volunteers and the local business/government entity. At the same time, the students provided a valuable volunteer service for the City of Fort Worth and its citizens.
It really is a win-win for everyone involved. The City benefits since work is done that would otherwise not be accomplished due to limited funding. The citizens of Fort Worth benefit because having volunteers help out with some necessary work will increase customer service and help get more trees planted throughout the community. The arrangement was so successful that Forestry staff would like to participate in the program this school year and for years to come. The Castleberry Program Coordinator, Nancy Stansbury would like to continue the partnership this school year 2005-2006. She mentioned that all the students had positive comments when asked about their work experience at the Tree Farm. They are looking forward to volunteering again.
The partnership between the City of Fort Worth and Castleberry High School has been a valuable experience for both parties. The students gained vital work experience and skills and self-confidence in a wonderful atmosphere. It has increased the student’s understanding and appreciation of the importance of trees in our world. Working at the Tree Farm also reinforced many lessons in the student’s science curriculum. The City of Fort Worth and its citizens achieved valuable work to help expand their urban forest.








