
	Texas Forest Service











URBAN FORESTRY LEADERSHIP - JAMES R. MATZ









[ Print | 

 ]




For the past 15 years James Matz has worked tirelessly, providing the leadership and commitment to promote Urban and community forestry on both sides of the Rio Grande near the Gulf of Mexico. 
In 1988, concerned about the quality of life and the impact of development in Texas, James provided the leadership to found an organization called Harlingen Proud which mobilized volunteers to undertake a variety of projects, including Arbor Day activities. As a result of very positive media coverage over a four county area in 1990, James Matz founded and continues to chair the Valley Proud Environmental Council. The Council is dedicated to addressing many regional concerns including reforestation and community and urban forestry. These activities involve about 30 communities on the U.S. side and several communities on the Mexican side of the Rio Grande, and include sponsoring All Valley Arbor Month, Project Rio Reforestation, Dia Del Rio and the publication of three major documents:

A Guide for Selecting and Planting Native Trees in the Laguna Madre Area
A Guide for Selecting and Planting Native Trees in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas and Mexico
“A Guide to Growing Healthy Trees in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas” (1993, 1997 and re-edited and reprinted 2003) and its Spanish translation this year.

Perhaps the most innovative project was the “Arboles de Amistad/Trees of Friendship” project announced in 1993 calling for the planting of two million trees by the year 2000, in effect, one tree for each person who lived in this area on both sides of the border. These projects have numerous national and state awards.
In addition to these innovative and high impact projects, James leadership and commitment to urban forestry includes serving on the boards of the Texas Urban Forestry Council and Keep Texas Beautiful. James also served three years as Chairman of the Preserve Planet Earth Committee of Rotary International District 5930. Also, in addition to owning and operating his own business, he was elected and served as a Harlingen City Commissioner (1988-1990), Cameron County Commissioner (1992-1999), Palm Valley City Councilman (2000) and now as Mayor of Palm Valley (2002-2003).
James’s involvement in urban forestry projects has always been as an unpaid volunteer. His efforts are innovative and creative and he has the ability to bring experts and enthusiastic volunteers together to address local concerns on a regional basis. James’ fundamental belief is that everyone, rich or poor, Anglo or Hispanic, has pride. However, probably the most important measure of James’ dedication is that many more people today understand the quote, “We did not inherit this earth from our parents, rather it is on loan to us from our children.”
James shows how one person can make a difference.








