
	Texas Forest Service











CELEBRATE CAMP BOWIE PROJECT









[ Print | 

 ]




Rob Sell Chairman of the HCB, Inc Beautification Committee
Historic Camp Bowie, Inc. has taken its namesake, Camp Bowie Boulevard, the venerable red brick thoroughfare that is the commercial backbone of west Fort Worth, and has engineered an extensive campaign to transform it into a remarkable tree-lined, pedestrian friendly thoroughfare unlike any other grand avenue in this part of the United States.
Camp Bowie Boulevard is a nine mile thoroughfare. While the boulevard serves as the west side’s primary commercial corridor, competition from shopping malls and large retail centers in recent years has drawn some of its commercial lifeblood to newer parts of the city. Seeing this trend, a group of Fort Worth business leaders joined together in 2000 and rallied support to form Historic Camp Bowie, Inc., a Public Improvement District along Camp Bowie. This corporation utilizes an additional tax for Camp Bowie property owners to generate funds for business promotion and aesthetic improvements along the boulevard. Historic Camp Bowie, Inc.’s mission is to “create a pedestrian friendly commercial corridor that encourages people to shop in a safe and comfortable environment and to have a gratifying urban experience.”
In 2001 a master beautification plan for Camp Bowie was developed. The comprehensive plan calls for pedestrian friendly crosswalks, new street light standards, public art, and gateway monuments at major intersections, but the primary and most tangible objective of the plan is to transform Camp Bowie into a grand tree canopied boulevard.
HCB, Inc. has coordinated the efforts of numerous volunteers, property owners, private contractors, local landscape firms, and the Fort Worth Forestry and Parks Departments in the implementation of its beautification campaign. To rally initial support and help launch the effort, the organization ran a direct mail campaign which generated considerable local awareness and raised $50,000. Volunteers serving on the beautification committee then led a campaign to recruit local landscape firms to “adopt” triangular shaped city-owned parcels of land which line the boulevard, transforming neglected brown patches into beautifully landscaped pocket parks which are now admired and enjoyed by motorists and pedestrians alike.
In the tree planting effort, the greatest cost and challenge is the removal of concrete from the city’s right-of-way to create a consistent planter strip and sidewalk along the street. The goal in each case is to provide a consistent row of street trees which will connect to both existing and future rows, ultimately providing a continuous canopy along Camp Bowie. To date, HCB, Inc. has planted 60 trees in six locations along the boulevard. In each case, the trees were provided by the City.
By creating a first-class beautification plan, Historic Camp Bowie, Inc. has made a significant investment in the long-term beautification and viability of Texas’ most distinctive boulevard. While its implementation efforts have already made a significant aesthetic impact, the ultimate fulfillment of this grand vision will be the profound gift of civic beauty given to future generations who will call Fort Worth home.
Congratulations to everyone at Historic Camp Bowie.








