
	Texas Forest Service











ODESSA SHADEMAKERS - ODESSA PARD AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES









[ Print | 

 ]




Picture: Steve Patton, Scott Anderson, Darlene Mays, Tommy Jones, Rosie Lopez, James Hull
Keep Odessa Beautiful, the City of Odessa Parks & Recreation Department and the City of Odessa Neighborhood Development Services are all working together to improve the “quality of life” by planting trees in residential neighborhoods. Last year, the creation of the Odessa Neighborhood ShadeMakers Tree Planting Program resulted in the planting of 200, 2” to 3” caliper Live Oaks and Bradford Pear trees in Odessa.  ShadeMakers provides homeowners with a FREE TREE to plant in their front yard in targeted neighborhoods throughout the community.
The ShadeMakers Program was started with a small matching grant from the Texas Forest Service, and funding from Abell-Hanger Foundation, Home Depot, Huntsman Corporation, Junior League of Odessa, Odessa Ector Power Partners, Bank One, Area-Wide Phonebook and the Odessa Board of Realtors. By the end of the project, the partners had raised over $32,000!
Keep Odessa Beautiful developed all of the printed materials for printing and handled placement of all advertisements and psa’s associated with the program. They helped to ensure media coverage for the tree planting event, recruitment of volunteers for the tree planting and contracted for 45 tree holes to be dug. They recruited over 100 volunteers to assist those residents needing help with planting. The first 100 trees were planted in two low-to-moderate income “new” housing subdivisions: The second round of 100 trees were planted in a moderate income neighborhood. This neighborhood has experienced an influx of new housing construction and the trees planted in this neighborhood truly impacted the appearance of this new housing subdivision.
The City of Odessa Parks & Recreation Department assisted Neighborhood Development Services with the neighborhood selection, kinds of tree species to be planted, secured Home Depot’s discounted pricing for trees and picked up trees and mulch bags from Home Depot. They also hung the door hangers at selected residences, collected door hanger postcards and delivered to the trees and mulch to the residents. In addition, they also planted some of the trees in neighborhoods and conducted the follow-up survey to ensure trees were planted and are being cared for by the homeowner. 
Congratulations to Keep Odessa Beautiful, the City of Odessa Parks & Recreation Department and Neighborhood Development Services for creating Shademakers to bring their community together to plant Odessa’s urban forest.








