
	Texas Forest Service











CONSERVATION EASEMENT AGREEMENT - WOLFF COMPANIES AND TREES FOR HOUSTON









[ Print | 

 ]




Picture: Kathy Lord, Trees for Houston
During the past twenty-one years Trees for Houston has worked throughout Houston developing relationships with government agencies, corporations and foundations to plant and protect our urban forest. In 2004, Trees for Houston’s mission was expanded when they entered into a unique and long-term relationship with Wolff Companies to establish its first conservation easement. The creation of Carolyn Wolff Park ensures the protection in perpetuity of 83 mature, native Texas hardwood trees. 
Wolff Companies, a leading Houston commercial real estate development firm, purchased this land more than 30 years ago and has since preserved the trees as the area around it was developed. The site, located on Clay Road near Beltway 8, became part of the 150-acre Westway Park development. As surrounding parcels of land were bought and sold, changing market conditions increased the danger that a new owner might not preserve the grove. 
Trees for Houston gladly became the stewards of the 3.06 acres of land donated by Wolff Companies under the conservation easement agreement. The market value of the land has been estimated at $1.5 million, however, as an addition to Houston’s urban forest, it is priceless. In addition, Wolff Companies created an endowment fund for the ongoing stewardship of the land and trees. Using Carolyn Wolff Park as a model of urban conservation, both organizations hope that conservation casements become a tool more widely used by landowners to protect green space and trees. 
The creation of Carolyn Wolff Park as a conservation easement is a model for future partnerships between corporations and non-profit organizations. This donation ensures the health and maintenance of trees that have lived in Houston’s urban environment for at least 100 years. Trees and green space like this park provide significant benefits to the long-term well-being of Houston. 
Thank you Wolff Companies and Trees for Houston for all your efforts to make Houston a better green place to live work and play.








