
	Texas Forest Service











SPARK SCHOOL PARK PROGRAM









[ Print | 

 ]




Picture: Darrin Fisher, Tinsley Elementary Scholl and Kathleen Ownby, SPARK Parks
The SPARK School Park Program selected Tinsley Elementary School as a unique-‘SPARK” project in the spring of 2002. The vision for Tinsley was to develop a detention pond required for drainage control into a schoolyard nature center that serves as a haven and sanctuary for native plants and birds, insects, butterflies and turtles. The students, staff and community now have a beautiful place to play, observe, and learn on land that was once only open space used for drainage. 
Volunteer Architects designed the project, while Boy Scouts working towards their Eagle Rank implemented the plans. The Boy Scouts built the majority of the features of the park including a large detention pond, a bridge over the pond, a tool shed, a tool rack, a walking trail paved with crushed granite, and gardens for cacti, butterflies, rocks and vegetables.
The funding of the Tinsley SPARK Park & Nature Center was made possible by the students, school, and generosity of community partnerships. Tinsley Elementary raised over $13,500 for their park by hosting a Fiesta dinner, having a garage sale, collecting pennies, and selling t-shirts, wrapping paper and candy. The school received a $5,000 donation from Fiesta, $5,000 from the Marathon Oil Company, $5,000 from the Port of Houston Authority, $2,500 from the Farb Foundation, and $500 from Flagship Properties.  Houston ISD also contributed $5,000 toward the park. Urban Harvest provided the fruit trees and plants located around the park. The Museum of Fine Arts Houston contributed funds for a mural painted by artist. Trees for Houston donated additional trees to the park and employees from Hewlett Packard participated in a volunteer tree planting. The students and teachers of Tinsley are learning to properly care for the area and have received training throughout the year that will relate to teaching about and keeping up the school habitat.
The Tinsley Elementary SPARK Park & Nature Center benefits the community in several ways.
First, over 95% of the student population at Tinsley comes from neighborhood apartment complexes where there is little if any interaction with nature. The SPARK Park provides a perfect space for environmental activity in a community backyard.
Secondly, it is used as an outdoor laboratory for teachers to teach environmental education, thus promoting responsibility for community and environment.
Third, the park has turned a water detention area required for flood control into a visual asset for the community.
Fourth, the trees planted in the park and around the perimeter of the school help to improve the air quality in the neighborhood and provide shade for those using the park.
Finally, the public art in the new SPARK Park improves the aesthetic quality of the community and gives them a sense of pride and ownership of their park. The Tinsley SPARK Park & Nature Center improves the school and adds to the community by providing a safe and fun place for people to enjoy each other and by improving the quality of life in the neighborhood. 
The Tinsley Elementary SPARK Park & Nature Center is a pioneer student project that will foster education and recreational enjoyment for years to come. Tonight we recognize the difficult and creative work by students and supporters to make their world a better place. 
Congratulations to the students and teachers and SPARK Parks.









