
	Texas Forest Service











SPECIAL LIFETIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD - ED BARRON









[ Print | 

 ]




The International Society of Arboriculture, Texas Chapter, Texas Urban Forestry Council and Texas Forest Service present the Community Tree Management Award for a Lifetime of Achievement to Ed Barron.              
For 39 years, Ed has served to citizens of the state of Texas. He came to the Texas Forest Service as a green forester in 1966 as a graduate of Louisiana Polytechnic University. Over his long career with the Texas Forest Service he has served in many capacities. He started as a field forester in 1967 and in 1967, setting a trend that would last his entire career, he was given more responsibility and a larger role, adding fire control and pest suppression to his duties. He rose to Assistant District Forester in 1969 and in 1971 was given additional duties as a Staff Forester. During this time he completed his service with the Army National Guard and received a Masters in Forestry from Steven F. Austin.   
In 1975 he was promoted to Assistant Department Head and in 1977, Ed was appointed as Head of the Forest Management Department. In 1996 he was promoted to Associate Director of the Forest Resource Development Department.  Here he oversaw the consolidation of many TFS programs.  As Associate Director, Ed provided overall leadership for programs which now include

Reforestation
Forest Pest Management
Oak Wilt Suppression
Nurseries including a pine seedling nursery in East Texas and a windbreak seedling nursery in Lubbock
West Texas Windbreak Program
Urban Forestry
Resource Analysis/Forest Economic Development
Silvicultural Research
Forest Products
Best Management Practices
Forest Stewardship
Western Gulf Forest Pest Management Cooperative
Western Gulf Forest Tree Improvement Program

This year he was made Associate Director of Sustainable Forestry & Economic Development responsible for the agency's efforts to help ensure sustainable forest resources in Texas.  Programs included economic analysis, Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA), water quality protection, Western Gulf Forest Tree Improvement Program, economic development, Forest Legacy, forest taxation, and environmental services.
 Ed has always been deeply involved in the TFS urban forestry program. During his career, Ed initiated and oversees the TFS Urban Forestry Program and worked closely with TFS urban foresters to the TFS statewide program. Ed helped to found the Texas Urban forestry Council back in 1987and was its secretary for many years. In fact, he started the Community Forestry Award Program 19 years ago and helped to establish the regional councils.
 Ed has won numerous awards including: Elected Fellow, Society of American Foresters, the International Society of Arboriculture Gold Leaf Award for Outstanding Arbor Day Activities and the Texas A&M University System Regents Fellow Service Award.
 What is ahead for Ed? Well Robbie has recently retired from her career as a nurse and her “honey do” list along with chasing 5 grandbabies should keep them both quite busy.  
Ed, good luck, best wishes and thanks from all of us for your 39 years of dedicated public service. The world is a better place because of you.








