World stir-fry record set at UMass | WWLP.com







About Us
Contact Us
Newsletters
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 






  




News


Massachusetts
National
International
Obituaries
Crime Watch
Strange
I Team
Pump Prices
Business
Politics
Weather


7 Day Forecast
Closings
Daycast
Local Forecast
National
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Temperatures
Travel
Weather Photos
Report It
Traffic


Incidents
Key Routes
Sports


High School
UMASS
22News Athlete
NASCAR
Thursday
Video
Community


School Lunches
Calendar
Submit Event
Entertainment


Music
Movies
Television
Celebrity News
Lottery
Horoscopes
TV Schedule
Pet of Week
Video Games
Consumer Tech
Participate


Blogs
Contests
Mass Appeal
Connections


Health
Home
Camp
onPolitix


Home : News : Local : Hampshire : 













Video
Photo
Map

















PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size2/2








Change Location

















Strange News



'Gumby' robs Calif. convenience storeSan Diego police say surveillance tape shows a person dressed …



Video: Madonna disses fan's gift to her
It's Madonna versus hydrangeas. The pop star was caught on a …



Driver delivers would-be criminal to PDThe driver told police a man jumped onto the hood of her car, …



Golden Eye diamond goes up for auctionA large yellow diamond seized in a money laundering inv…



Man found butchering cow in drivewayAuthorities are considering charges after a Utah man was found …








Advertisement







World stir-fry record set at UMassTwo tons cooked in giant wok suspended from craneUpdated: Tuesday, 06 Sep 2011, 4:39 PM EDTPublished : Tuesday, 06 Sep 2011, 9:57 AM EDT
Barry Kriger 

AMHERST, Mass. (WWLP) - What better way to celebrate labor day, than to labor over a hot frying pan. A 14-foot frying pan. That's what dozens of volunteer chefs were doing Monday night in front of hundreds of people at UMass, Amherst. It was a team effort to break the world record for stir fry. Volunteer chefs were using specially-built rakes to push thousands of pounds of chicken and vegetables around a "monster wok," a 14-foot wide custom-built frying pan... suspended over the flames by a crane. UMass freshman, volunteer assistant chef Ian Casker didn't know he'd end up cooking. "It's pretty crazy. I wasn't expecting this to happen. I thought I was gonna be serving water. But the we got asked to come in here and help." In an attempt to set a new record for the world's largest stir fry, they used 800 pounds of chicken, and all locally-grown vegetables: 535 pounds of onions, 464 pounds of carrots, 216 pounds of peppers, 242 pounds of green beans, 200 pounds of peanuts, 50 pounds of garlic... and 11 pounds of basil. (Also some parsnips and other stuff) It was all stirred in with 200 pounds of zero trans-fat canola oil. When the crane hoisted the giant pan to weigh it, a Guinness Book of World Records representative confirmed, they didn't just break the record, they shattered it; "You've broken the record with 4010 pounds!" Monday night's accomplishment marked Food Network Chef Jet Tila's third world record. He reclaimed his stir fry title Monday after African high school students broke his first record 6 years ago... and last year he enlisted UMass to help him make the world's longest sushi roll, at 440 feet. Tila told 22News he always welcomes a challenge, "I will do anything insane when it comes to food. If... I can come up with another world record idea, we're definitely gonna do it." The crowd sampled the stir fry, and said it was tasty. Among the comments, "I love it. It's great. Love it. Awesome! It's really good. I like it a lot." The idea behind the event, six-months in the making, was to promote healthy eating and welcome 27,000 students back to UMass, Amherst. And at two tons of stir-fry, they expect this record to stand awhile.  








Comments (Login Not Required)


  














Top Stories



As rivers rise, so do anxieties


10 years after 9/11, are we safer?


I-Team: MassHealth stops Adlife funds


inFocus:Remembering 9/11 ten years later


Fighter pilot on 9/11 shares his story





9/11: 22News flight with F-15s over NYC


Fish hatcheries damaged by floods


MA voters thoughts on Gov. priorities


Wet weather hits raw nerve along river


Time running short for road repairs










More Stories »


























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page




Advertisement

















Hampshire County News



Mill River at flood stage, again


Court clerks cutting back on hours


Ending wars a priority in MA, poll says


Northampton reducing energy consumption


World stir-fry record set at UMass









Hampshire »






Advertisement









   Hampshire County Real Estate  Get this Widget
















Must See Videos



'Gumby' robs Calif. convenience store


Video: Madonna disses fan's gift to her



Driver delivers would-be criminal to PD


World stir-fry record set at UMass


Police join search for lost iPhone









More Videos »







Site Tools RSS iPulse Widget SMS Text Alerts Twitter Mobile/iPhone FacebookEmail AlertsYouTube









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Report It
Traffic
Sports
Video
Community
Entertainment
Participate
Mass Appeal
Connections
onPolitix


Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
LIN Interactive
EEO Public File Report
FCC File
SitemapAll content ÂŠ Copyright 2000 - 2011 WWLP-TV. All Rights Reserved.












