
	Texas Forest Service











BUGS, BUTTERFLIES AND BLOSSOMS









[ Print | 

 ]





Award of Excellence - Civic Organization Project Award
“Bugs, Butterflies and Blossoms”
Keep Nacogdoches Beautiful and Stephen F. Austin State University
What’s all that happy noise coming out of East Texas every Spring? It’s kids enjoying Bugs, Butterflies, and Blossoms (BBB), an annual urban forestry education event for children in grades K-4 throughout East Texas. BBB is in its ninth year and is a collaborative between Keep Nacogdoches Beautiful KNB, the SFASU Department of Elementary Education and many other partners.
The purpose of the program is two-fold; to give future teachers knowledge and skills about forests and forestry issues that they can use when they reach the classroom, and to provide students in grades K-4 the opportunity to learn about trees in an outdoor setting with hands-on, engaging activities.
The program begins each year when students in Dr. Sowards’ Teaching Elementary Science course receive training in Project Learning Tree, a forestry based environmental education curriculum. The workshop is taught by foresters from the Nacogdoches office of Texas Forest Service. The Project Learning Tree (PLT) curriculum guides are provided by Keep Nacogdoches Beautiful and the Angelina - Nacogdoches County Forest Landowners Association. Last year 112 SFA students were trained in PLT. Once trained the SFA students select, modify, and adapt PLT lessons and activities to use for the BBB event.  
The program has become so popular that teachers begin calling in August each year to make reservations! Last year was the largest BBB ever, with 1,754, K-4 students attending the 4-day event. The event incorporates art, music, literature, social studies, math, and science into the tree activities that are all correlated to the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills.
Over the past 9 years, Bugs, Butterflies, and Blossoms has provided over 600 teachers with the knowledge and skills to teach about the importance of trees in our communities and it has taught over 12,000 East Texas elementary students about the importance of trees.
Keep Nacogdoches Beautiful, SFA and all their partners invite you to come join the 9th Annual Bugs, Butterfiles and Blossoms at the SFA Mast Arboretum this April 25th-27th, 2006.








