newszilla.eu the latest news from around the world - powered by FeedBurner
&



newszilla.eu the latest news from around the world

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



F-16 pilot was ready to ram hijacked plane on 9/11


Posted: 2011-09-10 16:06:52 UTC-04:00




A F-16 pilot scrambled on 9/11 to prevent another attack on the US capital says she was prepared to ram her plane into a hijacked aircraft -- as there was no time to arm her plane with missiles.

Amid fears another hijacked airliner was barreling towards Washington, Heather Penney, then a lieutenant in the Washington DC National Guard, was one of two pilots ordered to take off without delay, she said in a recent interview.

The threat of an attack on US soil was seen as such a remote possibility at the time that the 121st fighter squadron at Andrews Air Force base outside Washington had no fully-armed fighter jets on standby.

With only 105 lead-nosed bullets on board, Penney and Colonel Marc Sasseville took to the skies, while two other F-16s waited to be armed with heat-seeking AIM-9 missiles, Penney told C-SPAN television this week.

The pilots had orders from the White House to take out any plane that refused to heed warnings and land, so the two pilots agreed on their plan.

"We wouldn't be shooting it down. We would be ramming the aircraft because we didn't have weapons on board to be able to shoot the airplane down," Penney said.

As they were putting on their flight gear, "Sass looked at me and said, 'I'll ram the cockpit.'

"And I had made the decision that I would take the tail off the aircraft," she said.

Penney said she "knew if I took off the tail of the aircraft, that it would essentially go straight down and so the pattern of debris would be minimized."

She said she thought about possibly ejecting just before impact.

"I would essentially be a kamikaze and ram my aircraft into the tail of the aircraft. I gave some thought to, you know, would I have time to eject?"

But the young pilot was concerned about failing to hit the target.

"I mean you only got one chance, you don't want to eject and have missed, right? "

When she took the plane down the runway, she said she believed it be the last take-off of her life.

In the end, Flight 93 never reached Washington, as passengers assaulted the hijackers in the cockpit and the plane crashed in a field in Pennsylvania.

But the F-16 pilots did not learn of the aircraft's fate until later that day, said Penney, now a major.

"The people on Flight 93 were heroes, but they were going to die no matter what," she said. "My concern was how do I minimize collateral damage on the ground."

Later that afternoon, Penney helped escort Air Force One, with former president George W. Bush on board, back to Andrews Air Force base.

A few years later, she flew missions in the Iraq war, hunting for SCUD missiles and backing up special operations forces.

Penney was among the first wave of female fighter pilots and she has since stopped flying full-time. The mother of two girls, she now works as a corporate executive, according to the Washington Post.

On the morning of September 11, 2001, Penney said she was absorbed with the urgent job at hand and had no time for emotions.

"It wasn't so much that I kept my emotions in check. It was that they didn't even exist," she said.

"There was significant adrelaine. It was really just, dear God please don't let me screw up."
By Dan De Luce | AFP





Obama offers disaster aid after recent Texas fires


Posted: 2011-09-10 12:55:10 UTC-04:00




President Barack Obama late on Friday approved federal disaster assistance for parts of Texas charred by recent wildfires, acting after criticism from Texas Governor Rick Perry that the federal government was ignoring the drought in his state.

The White House said Obama declared a major disaster exists in Texas and ordered federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the area affected by wildfires beginning on August 30, 2011.

Obama's action makes federal funding available to affected individuals in Bastrop County, where wildfires have forced the evacuation of residents and burned many homes.

Perry is pleased that Obama granted the aid to Bastrop County, located outside of Austin, the state capitol, according to a statement to Reuters on Saturday.

"We will continue urging the federal government to expand the declaration to ensure all Texans who have been affected by the thousands of fires across the state get the assistance they need," Perry said in a statement provided by Allison Castle, a spokeswoman.

Perry, who is running for the Republican presidential nomination to challenge Obama, has been criticizing the federal government for months, saying it was ignoring the plight of Texas while offering disaster assistance to other parts of the country hit by hurricanes, tornadoes and other calamities.

Perry has also repeatedly criticized the federal government for intervention in his state's affairs.
(Reporting by Eric Johnson and Greg McCune; Editing by Barbara Goldberg)Reuters





Florida set for big role in GOP presidential race


Posted: 2011-09-10 12:48:34 UTC-04:00




Take a breather, Iowa and New Hampshire.

Florida is about to get into the Republican presidential race big time, starting with a televised debate Monday in Tampa and ending with an early primary in 2012 that conceivably could wrap up the nomination.

It's quite plausible that front-runners Rick Perry and Mitt Romney could roughly divide the first four contests, in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina. If that happens, Florida could prove the virtual tie-breaker, a prize so big in a state so central to presidential elections that the loser might struggle to stay afloat.

"My guess is that Florida is going to be the big kahuna," said Brad Coker, a Florida-based pollster for Mason-Dixon who conducts surveys nationwide. Florida is much larger, diverse and expensive than the other four early-voting states, he said, and so it rewards the type of campaigning a Republican must do around the country to oust President Barack Obama in November 2012.

Of course, events over the next few months could upend that scenario. Perry, the Texas governor, or Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, might stumble. Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann could revive her struggling campaign. Former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman might catch fire. A new candidate, such as former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, might jump in.

Then there's the scheduling of those caucuses and primaries, which isn't set.

For now, campaign strategists assume Florida will be the fifth contest, as early as Jan. 31, and the first in a big state.

Florida Republicans don't follow presidential politics as intensely as do GOP activists in Iowa and New Hampshire. Nor do they expect one-on-one encounters with candidates.

When the nominating process rolls into Florida, "the days of the house parties are behind you," said Phil Musser, a former director of the Republican Governors Association and a frequent consultant in the state.

In the next two weeks, Florida Republicans will get ample attention, beginning with Monday night's two-hour debate sponsored by CNN and the Tea Party Express.

The forum will include the eight contenders who debated last week in California, where Perry made his national debut. Romney is almost certain to renew his criticisms of Perry for calling Social Security's funding structure "a Ponzi scheme."

The candidates also will have their first collective chance to dissect the jobs proposal that Obama outlined Thursday.

The Orlando debate starts off the three-day "Presidency 5" event where thousands of Florida Republicans will mingle, hear speeches and vote in a presidential straw poll.

Will Weatherford, incoming speaker of the Florida House, said many party donors and activists are on the sidelines for now, but the big weekend will give them a good long look at the contenders. "A lot of people will choose sides after that," he said.

In the last two competitive GOP primaries, Florida joined South Carolina to form a one-two Southern punch that essentially resolved disagreements in Iowa and New Hampshire.

In 2008, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee won in Iowa, but quickly faltered. Arizona Sen. John McCain captured the New Hampshire and South Carolina primaries, and then eliminated all doubt in Florida by beating Romney and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.

Giuliani was embarrassed after pouring nearly all his money and hopes into Florida. The lesson, campaign strategists say, is that a candidate must build momentum in Iowa or New Hampshire to gain credibility in Florida.

Florida was even crueler to Texas Rep. Ron Paul, who took 3 percent of the 2008 primary vote. Paul is running for president again.

In 2000, McCain carried New Hampshire after Texas Gov. George W. Bush won in Iowa. Bush overtook McCain in a brutal South Carolina contest, then crushed McCain in Florida and went on to win the presidency.

In the 2012 election's early and highly speculative stages, strategists see Iowa and South Carolina as potentially good fits for Perry, while Romney could do well in New Hampshire and Nevada.

Under that scenario, Florida "has the real chance to be the decider," Musser said. For now, he said, "it's very wide open."

Florida has large numbers of every type of Republican voter. They are spread hundreds of miles apart, in expensive media markets.

Unlike the other early-voting states, Florida's primary is open only to people who have been registered as Republicans for many weeks, barring independents from influencing the nomination.

"There's no question that the Republican base in Florida is very conservative," said Todd Harris, a veteran strategist aligned with the state's GOP senator, Marco Rubio. "But they are not nearly as uniform in ideology as the base in South Carolina or Iowa caucus-goers."

"Perry will feel at home, culturally and politically, in the Panhandle," Harris said. "Romney will probably do better in the critical Interstate 4 corridor," which is perhaps the state's most diverse and up-for-grabs region. It runs from Daytona Beach through Orlando and to Tampa.

Many other GOP constituencies also must be catered to. They include Cuban-Americans in Miami, Midwestern retirees on the Gulf coast, and New York retirees on the south Atlantic coast.

"We have the social, economic and racial diversity that some of the other early primary states don't have," Weatherford said. It forces candidates to spend more, travel more and stretch themselves in new ways, he said.

"You can't use the same speech in Dade County that you use in the Panhandle," Weatherford said. Miami is the largest city in that county.

Some Republicans think Perry may have hurt himself among Florida's retirees with his sharp criticisms of Social Security. Others, however, note that Rubio has included Social Security among programs that were "crafted without any thought as to how they will be funded in future years."

"Because it weakened our people and didn't take (into) account the simple math of not being able to spend more money than you have, it was destined to fail" and must be revised, Rubio said last month.

Coker said Rubio might catch less heat for such remarks because Floridians see him as deliberate and intellectual. Perry, he said, "was like a bull in a china shop."

"If you want to talk Social Security in Florida," Coker said, "you must talk softly."

He said it's too early to handicap the Florida primary, but Romney has a head start organizationally because of his efforts in 2008.

Party insiders say former Gov. Jeb Bush, whose father and brother were presidents, remains highly popular among Florida Republicans. His family in Texas reportedly has chilly relations with Perry, fueling speculation that Jeb Bush might endorse Romney.

Weatherford doubts it will happen. "He wants people to earn it," he said.

Rubio, the 40-year-old senator with strong ties to Cuban-Americans, tea partyers and others, also could deliver a helpful endorsement, but party activists don't think he will.

Whoever wins the GOP nomination might strongly consider Rubio as a running mate. He could help carry a state that repeatedly proves crucial in presidential elections, and one the GOP desperately wants to wrest from Obama next year.

By CHARLES BABINGTON - Associated Press | AP





Berkshire's Richline to buy Italian jeweler


Posted: 2011-09-10 12:29:11 UTC-04:00




Jewelry company Richline International, part of billionaire investor Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway , will buy its fifth small Italian jewelry brand as it plans to expand further in Italy.

Italy-based Richline International, fully owned by Berkshire's unit Richline Group, said in a statement it has signed a letter of intent to buy the production, design, intellectual property and distribution rights of Carniani.

It did not disclose financial details of the deal.

Lucio Carniani, who would continue to run his gold and silver jewelry maker, told Reuters his company revenues came in at 4 million euros ($5.63 million) last year.

Earlier this year, U.S. jewelry manufacturer and distributor Richline Group, has bought four privately held Italian jewelry brands: children's jewelry maker Erz, earrings and bracelets maker Farinex, 7AR and Zeno, fuelling expectations that other deals could be in the pipeline.

Richline is looking for other acquisitions on the Italian jewelry market after the Carniani deal, Dennis Ulrich, chief executive officer of Richline Group, told Reuters.

"We are looking to expand ... We always have ongoing conversations (about possible acquisitions) ... A bigger acquisition is not excluded," Ulrich said in an interview at an international jewelry trade fair.

Richline could be interested in small artisanal jewelry makers and in industrial companies as long as they produce high quality creative products, Ulrich said.

Italian jewelry highly fragmented manufacturing sector, made up mostly of small family-owned companies, has been hit hard by the 2008/2009 financial crisis and many companies need cash injections to keep going.

Richline Group, which was formed in 2007 and includes such brands as Andin, Alarama, Aurafin, Auragem and Bel-Oro (http://www.richlinegroup.com), made $500 million in sales last year, Ulrich said.

With buying Italian companies and setting up Richline International as a hub for further expansion, Richline Group goes beyond its traditional North American markets to boost sales in Italy, France, Germany, Britain, Scandinavia and reach as far as Australia and Hong Kong, he said.

Carniani is expected to double its sales within a year while the whole Richline International is seen boosting its business by 50 percent over the period thanks to organic growth and new acquisitions, Ulrich said.

Richline does not plan acquisitions of jewelry makers in Asia for now but aims to establish commercial relations there, he said.

(Reporting by Svetlana Kovalyova; Editing by Toby Chopra)Reuters






Nationalist party's influence waning in Denmark


Posted: 2011-09-10 08:43:39 UTC-04:00




 One of Europe's most influential anti-immigration parties could lose its leverage in Danish politics in next week's election.

Polls ahead of the vote Thursday show that the Danish People's Party stands to lose the kingmaker role which for 10 years has given it an important say on government policy, including pushing through sharp restrictions on immigration.

For Phillip Hobbs, a 26-year-old Australian online entrepreneur who was denied a residence permit even though his wife and their 8-month-old son are Danish citizens, the change would be welcome.

Hobbs is an unintended target of a rule that prevents Danish citizens from bringing in a foreign spouse if one of them is younger than 24. Hobbs' wife is 23. The rule is aimed at reducing forced marriages in immigrant communities for immigration reasons.

"It starts a fire inside me every time I hear someone who says they vote for the Danish People's Party," said Hobbs, who moved his family last month to neighboring Sweden, where immigration rules are more relaxed.

The "24-year-rule" is among a raft of measures to clamp down on immigration that Denmark's government has adopted under the influence of the Danish People's Party and its leader, 64-year-old Pia Kjaersgaard.

Since the Liberal-Conservative minority government took power in 2001, it depends on Kjaersgaard's backing to push budget proposals and other bills through parliament.

As a result, Denmark's asylum rules are now among Europe's strictest, reducing the number of refugees seeking shelter in the country of 5.6 million people from nearly 13,000 in 2001 to just over 5,000 last year.

"In the past 10 years we have been able to tighten the immigration laws, and instead we get more people who come here to work and study," said Peter Skaarup, deputy leader of the Danish People's Party. "We believe we still have a ways to go."

But many voters say they are fed up with the party's polarizing language about Muslim immigrants — from countries including Pakistan, Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan — whom it accuses of leeching off the welfare system while failing to adopt Danish norms.

Election campaigns have not focused on immigration, but on how to revive Denmark's sluggish economy amid the European debt crisis. The government has been forced to downgrade its growth forecast for this year, and projects budget deficits of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 and 4.6 percent in 2012.

Most polls indicate the Danish People's Party will only lose a few of its 24 seats in the 179-member Parliament. But the government appears likely to lose power to a left-wing opposition bloc led by Social Democratic leader Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who has ruled out teaming up with the Danish People's Party.

"This means the Danish People's Party could become politically uninteresting when in the opposition and they will not have any influence," said political science professor Kasper Moeller Hansen of the University of Copenhagen.

Such a shift probably won't change the country's immigration laws — none of the major parties favor loosening them — but would affect Denmark's overall politics.

"In the past 10 years they have polarized the debate, because they focused so much on Muslims," said Mustafa Gezen, the spokesman of the Danish Muslim Council. "That puts an unnecessary focus on 200,000 people in Denmark. Most are really working to give something to Danish society."

The election outcome could also affect Denmark's image abroad — reducing the negative headlines in Europe and beyond that the party has produced.

Earlier this year, the party pushed through a plan to reinstate customs checks at Denmark's borders with Germany and Sweden — a move that drew sharp protests from Germany and the European Union. The EU said Denmark was violating the spirit, if not the letter, of EU rules on free movement for goods and people.

The opposition says it will revoke the border plan if it can form a government.

By JAN M. OLSEN - Associated Press | AP Associated Press writer Karl Ritter in Stockholm contributed to this report.





Another launch delay for NASA's newest moon probes


Posted: 2011-09-10 08:36:42 UTC-04:00


 NASA's newest moon probes are still on Earth.

The launch countdown got all the way down to the four-minute mark Saturday morning. But high wind prevented the unmanned rocket from blasting off on the day's first opportunity. NASA has one more chance to get the twin spacecraft flying Saturday at 9:08 a.m. Otherwise, that's it until Sunday.

This is the third launch delay for the $496 million Grail mission. Thursday's try was put off by high wind. Rocket concerns spoiled Friday's attempt.

The twin Grail spacecraft will circle the moon and measure its gravity.
By MARCIA DUNN - AP Aerospace Writer | AP





No more mail? What would Ben Franklin think


Posted: 2011-09-10 08:33:56 UTC-04:00




 Imagine a nation without the Postal Service.

No more birthday cards and bills or magazines and catalogs filling the mailbox. It's a worst-case scenario being painted for an organization that lost $8.5 billion in 2010 and seems headed deeper into the red this year.

"A lot of people would miss it," says Tony Conway, a 34-year post office veteran who now heads the Alliance of Nonprofit Mailers.

Businesses, too.

The letter carrier or clerk is the face of the mail. But hanging in the balance is a $1.1 trillion mailing industry that employs more than 8 million people in direct mail, periodicals, catalogs, financial services, charities and other businesses that depend on the post office.

Who would carry mail to the Hualapai Indian Reservation in the Grand Canyon? To islands off the coast of Maine? To rural villages in Alaska? Only the post office goes to those places and thousands of others in the United States, and all for 44 cents. And it's older than the United States itself.

Ernest Burkes Sr. says his bills, magazines and diabetes medication are mailed to his home in Canton, in northeast Ohio, and he frequently visits the post office down the street to send first-class mail, mostly documents for the tax service he runs. As his business increased over the past three decades, so has the load of mail he sends, and it's still pretty steady.

"I don't know what I'd do if they'd close down the post offices," said Burkes, who doesn't use rival delivery services such as UPS or FedEx. "They need to help them, just like they helped some of these other places, automobiles and others."

Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe is struggling to keep his money-losing organization afloat as more and more people are ditching mail in favor of the Internet, causing the lucrative first-class mail flow to plummet.

Donahoe has a plan to turn things around, if he can get the attention of Congress and pass a series of hurdles, including union concerns.

"The Postal Service is not going out of business," postal spokesman David Partenheimer said. "We will continue to deliver the mail as we have for more than 200 years. The postmaster general has developed a plan that will return the Postal Service to financial stability. We continue to do what we can on our own to achieve this plan and we need Congress to do its part to get us there."

He acknowledged that if Congress doesn't act, the post office could reach a point next summer where it doesn't have the money to keep operating.

That wouldn't sit well with Mimi Raskin, a wine and antiques store owner in Grants Pass, Ore., who likes her birthday card mailed. "If you get a birthday card on the Internet, it's like, well, I didn't care about you enough to go to a store, buy a card that suited your personality, and mail it," she said.

Donahoe and his predecessor, John Potter, have warned for years of the problems and stressed that the post office will be unable to make a mandated $5.5 billion payment due Sept. 30 to a fund for future medical benefits for retirees.

A 90-day delay on the payment has been suggested, but postal officials and others in the industry say a long-term solution is needed.

Donahoe has one. It includes laying off staff beyond the 110,000 cut in the past four years, closing as many as 3,700 offices, eliminating Saturday delivery and switching from the federal retirement plan to one of its own.

Cliff Guffey, president of the American Postal Workers Union, called the proposal "outrageous, illegal and despicable."

A contract signed in March protects many workers from layoffs. Guffey said the attempt to change that now "is in utter disregard for the legal requirement to bargain with the APWU in good faith." Other unions, including the National Association of Letter Carriers, are negotiating their contracts with the post office.

Yet Donahoe's efforts are drawing praise from people such as Conway, the head of the nonprofit mailers, who says these are necessary steps that officials have shied away from in the past.

Several bills proposing ways to fix the agency are circulating in Congress. One, by Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., would impose a control board to make the tough decisions.

When it was first introduced, the bill was perceived as "way out there," Conway said. But as the postal financial problems have become more obvious, "you're seeing people thinking maybe it isn't that extreme."

Gene Del Polito, of the trade group American Association for Postal Commerce, said now that Donahoe has offered a plan, "why not give him the authority do to do what needs to be done." If that fails, then a control board could be instituted, he said.

Closing offices seems an easy way to save, but members of Congress never want cuts in their districts, and while the public may mail less, people still want their local office to stay open.

The changes that Donahoe are proposing would mean a different post office, but one that still operates for people such as Jovita Camesa, who's 75 and lives in a downtown Los Angeles retirement complex. She said she's sending more first-class mail than ever due to her expanding circle of grandchildren.

Camesa said she wouldn't think to use the Internet for those birthday and holiday greetings, or start going online to seek out the articles she now reads in the issues of Vogue, Readers Digest, Prevention and other magazines that are delivered to her. "I'm not interested in the Internet or computers," she said. "I'm very traditional."

Ellen Levine, editorial director of Hearst Magazines, told a Senate hearing that the Internet has not eliminated the need for mail delivery of magazines.

"Nearly all publishers use the United States Postal Service to deliver their magazines to subscribers," she said. "While most consumer titles are also available on newsstands, mail subscriptions will remain the major component of hard-copy magazine circulation in the United States for the foreseeable future." Overall, Levine said subscriptions account for about 90 percent of magazine circulation.

Olive Ayhens, an artist who lives in Brooklyn, N.Y., says she pays her bills online but still uses first-class mail. She was mailing announcements of her newest gallery opening; one was going to her son in London.

"Less than a dollar, I'm sending to London," she said during a stop at the James A. Farley Post Office in Manhattan.

The internet, along with the advent of online bill paying, has contributed to a sharp decline in mail handled by the post office, from 207 billion in 2001 to 171 billion last year. Although the price of stamps has increased from 34 cents to 44 cents over the same period, it is not enough to cover the post office's bills, in part because of higher labor costs.

Yet one of the biggest problems isn't mail flow or labor or other costs. Rather, it's a requirement imposed by Congress five years ago that the post office set aside $55 billion in an account to cover future medical costs for retirees. The idea was to put $5.5 billion a year into the account for 10 years. That's $5.5 billion the post office doesn't have.

No other government agency is required to make such a payment for future medical benefits, so why not drop it for the post office.

Like everything in Washington, it's not that simple.

The Postal Service is not included in the federal budget, but the Treasury Department account that receives that payment is.

That means that when the post office deposits that money, it counts as income in the federal budget. So, if it doesn't make the payment, the federal budget deficit appears $5.5 billion bigger, something few members of Congress are likely to favor.

In announcing his bill, Issa warned of a need to avoid a "bailout" of the post office, which does not receive taxpayer money for its operations.

Others, however, have characterized the $5.5 billion payments as a post office bailout of the federal budget because it makes the deficit appear smaller.

"We have made that argument," said Del Polito. But it has been rejected with the argument that the payments are required by law and ending them requires a change in the law.

That problem of appearing to increase the federal deficit creates a reluctance to deal with the matter directly, Del Polito said.

So where does that leave the post office and those Americans who don't have access to the internet?

Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., suggested more people start sending passionate letters as a way to save the agency.

As good an idea as love missives may be, they are unlikely to be enough.

___
By RANDOLPH E. SCHMID - Associated Press | AP Associated Press writers Jeff Barnard in Grants Pass, Ore.; Deepti Hajela in New York; Bob Johnson in Montgomery, Ala.; Kantele Franko in Columbus, Ohio; and Jacob Adelman in Los Angeles contributed to this report.





Obama: U.S. stronger 10 years after Sept 11 attacks


Posted: 2011-09-10 06:33:14 UTC-04:00


President Barack Obama said on Saturday the United States was stronger 10 years after the September 11, 2001, attacks and Americans would "carry on" despite continued threats against their safety.

Marking Sunday's 10th anniversary of the "9/11" attacks on New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, Obama noted that al Qaeda's strength had been sapped by relentless U.S. efforts in the decade since the tragedy killed nearly 3,000 people.

"Thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our intelligence, law enforcement and homeland security professionals, there should be no doubt: today, America is stronger and al Qaeda is on the path to defeat," Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address.

New York police amassed a display of force on Friday, including checkpoints that snarled traffic in response to intelligence about a car or truck bomb plot linked to the anniversary.

Obama noted that terror groups would continue to target the United States.

"Yes we face a determined foe, and make no mistake -- they will keep trying to hit us again. But as we are showing again this weekend, we remain vigilant," he said.

"We're doing everything in our power to protect our people, and no matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry on."

Obama will travel to all three sites on Sunday where hijackers turned planes into missiles, bringing down the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York, hitting the Pentagon in Virginia and crashing into a Pennsylvania field.

The attacks sparked U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the latter of which Obama opposed.

"They wanted to draw us in to endless wars, sapping our strength and confidence as a nation. But even as we put relentless pressure on al Qaeda, we're ending the war in Iraq and beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan," he said. "Because after a hard decade of war, it is time for nation building here at home."

U.S. forces killed former al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden earlier this year.

The president referred to bin Laden's death and said the democratic movements in Arab countries cast a shadow over al Qaeda's legacy.

"We've forged new partnerships with nations around the world to meet the global challenges that no nation can face alone," Obama said. "And across the Middle East and North Africa a new generation of citizens is showing that the future belongs to those that want to build, not destroy."
By Jeff Mason | Reuters(Editing by Philip Barbara)





Finance officials to speed aid to Arab democracies


Posted: 2011-09-10 06:28:12 UTC-04:00


Financial leaders from the world's most developed nations are discussing ways of accelerating the flow of tens of billions of dollars to help support democracies in North Africa and the Middle East, British Treasury chief George Osborne said Saturday.

Osborne told reporters that finance ministers from Europe, the U.S., Canada and rich Arab countries would also commit to boosting trade with the region during the talks Saturday.

Osborne spoke to reporters ahead of meetings between those finance ministers and the finance ministers of Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco and Jordan, as well as representatives of Libya's National Transitional Council.

"What you'll see today is confirmation that we want to see the EBRD expand the committment of money now," Osborne said. The EBRD, or European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is in the process of reforming its statutes to permit it to expand its area of operations out of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union and into North Africa and the Middle East.

Osborne said financial officials will also "try to get some money to the EBRD in the short term so they can get going on it's work ahead of" its planned reform.

Along with financing from other international development banks, officials expect to mobilize "tens of billions of dollars" in lending capacity over the next three years to aid the five countries invited to Saturday's meeting, Osborne said.

Osborne said officials would also commit to lifting sanctions on Libya, unfreezing its assets, and also "significantly get oil production going as quickly as possible."

source ap.org






Egypt on alert after Israeli embassy attack


Posted: 2011-09-10 06:25:23 UTC-04:00




Egypt declared a state of alert on Saturday after protesters stormed the building housing Israel's embassy and clashed with police, prompting a mass evacuation of the ambassador and other staff.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the mob attack a "serious incident," while US President Barak Obama asked Egypt to protect the embassy housed in a high-rise building overlooking the Nile.

An Israeli official said Ambassador Yitzhak Levanon, other staff and dependants had all left Egypt but a senior diplomat remained behind.

"We left the deputy ambassador to keep up contact with the Egyptian government," the official told AFP in Jerusalem on condition of anonymity.

He said six embassy staff were plucked to safety by Egyptian commandos.

The attack on the embassy was the worst since Israel established its mission in Egypt after becoming the first Arab country to sign a peace treaty with the Jewish state in 1979. Jordan followed suit in 1994.

The violence is also the worst episode in tense relations between Egypt and Israel since the killing of five Egyptian policemen last month on the border as Israel hunted militants after a deadly attack.

One person died of a heart attack overnight and around 450 people were injured, Egypt's health ministry said.

Protesters demolished a security wall around the mission with sledgehammers, removed the Israeli flag and entered the embassy, grabbing thousands of documents which they dumped to cheering crowds.

They also torched police trucks and attacked regional police headquarters in the Giza district housing the embassy.

Hundreds of soldiers backed by armoured cars rushed to the area after Obama called on Cairo to protect the embassy.

Interior Minister Mansur al-Eissawy declared a state of high alert, cancelling all police leave, while Prime Minister Essam Sharaf called for an emergency cabinet meeting on Saturday.

Quoting an "informed source" government daily Al-Ahram reported on its website that "there is clear intention that the government will submit its resignation after its failure to contain" the violence.

The embassy attack came as about 1,000 protesters marched to the mission from Tahrir Square where thousands had massed to press Egypt's military rulers to keep promises of reform after a January-February revolt ousted president Hosni Mubarak.

Protesters hacked away at a protection wall surrounding the high-rise building housing the embassy while staff were trapped inside.

Israeli Defence Minister Minister Ehud Barak's office said he called US Defence Secretary Leon Panetta early on Saturday to request help protecting their embassy in Cairo's Giza district.

Obama spoke to Netanyahu by phone and expressed "great concern about the situation at the embassy, and the security of the Israelis serving there," the White House said.

Israel's Ynet news website said Netanyahu thanked Obama.

"The mob attack on the Israeli embassy is a serious incident but could have been worse had the rioters managed to get through the last door and hurt our people," Ynet quoted Netanyahu as saying.

"I'm glad we managed to prevent a disaster and would like to thank US President Barack Obama for his help," he said.

Israeli public radio said the six rescued men were security officers, and Netanyahu's office said they had returned home safe.

The six were "successfully rescued by Egyptian commandos," the Israeli official said in Jerusalem.

"When the violence got out of hand, some 80 (Israelis) were taken out" of Egypt, he added. "All our people are safe and sound."

Some 30 anti-riot police trucks and armoured vehicles were parked on Saturday in the area of the embassy where streets were strewn with rocks and broken glass from the overnight violence, an AFP reporter said.

Some roads leading to the embassy and Giza police station were blocked.

Egyptian state television said that Levanon met a general of the ruling military's Supreme Council of the Armed Forces before leaving Cairo, and that the Israeli ambassador appeared "anxious and even scared."

Protesters played cat-and-mouse with police throughout the night, amid clouds of tear gas and smoke from burning tyres.

They dumped documents in Arabic, English and Hebrew, bearing watermarks of the embassy, to thousands of people on the streets who jostled to grab them like trophies.

The documents ranged from requests to Egyptian authorities for weapons permits for embassy security to internal correspondence about holidays.

A former Israeli ambassador to Egypt, Zvi Mazel, said he believed that the documents were not top secret.

"It may be that our people anticipated something like this and destroyed the most secret things," he told Israeli public radio.

Egypt last month asked for an official apology from Israel following the August 18 killing of five policemen along the border, deaths that triggered huge protests outside the embassy.

Since president Hosni Mubarak's ouster in February, activists have called for a revision of the peace treaty.
By Mona Salem | AFP 





2 terror suspects may be US citizens


Posted: 2011-09-10 06:19:10 UTC-04:00




Al-Qaida may have sent American terrorists or men carrying U.S. travel documents to launch an attack on Washington or New York to coincide with memorials marking the 10th anniversary of 9/11, government officials say.

One U.S. official says al-Qaida dispatched three men, at least two of whom could be U.S. citizens, to detonate a car bomb in one of the cities. Should that mission prove impossible, the attackers have been told to simply cause as much destruction as they can.

Word that al-Qaida had ordered the mission reached U.S. officials midweek. A CIA informant who has proved reliable in the past approached intelligence officials overseas to say that the men had been ordered by newly minted al-Qaida leader Ayman al Zawahri to mark the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks Sunday by doing harm on U.S. soil.

The tipster says the would-be attackers are of Arab descent and may speak Arabic as well as English. Counterterrorism officials were looking for certain names associated with the threat, but it was unclear whether the names were real or fake.

Counterterrorism officials have been working around the clock to determine whether the threat is accurate, but so far, have been unable to corroborate it, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the investigation.

In the meantime, extra security was put in place to protect the people in the two cities that took the brunt of the jetliner attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon a decade ago. It was the worst terror assault in the nation's history, and al-Qaida has long dreamed of striking again to mark the anniversary. But it could be weeks before the intelligence community can say whether this particular threat is real.

Undaunted by talk of a new terror threat, New Yorkers and Washingtonians wove among police armed with assault rifles and waited with varying degrees of patience at security checkpoints Friday.

Security worker Eric Martinez wore a pin depicting the twin towers on his lapel as he headed to work in lower Manhattan where he also worked 10 years ago when the towers came down. "If you're going to be afraid, you're just going to stay home," he said.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg, too, made a point of taking the subway to City Hall.

Briefed on the threat Friday morning, President Barack Obama instructed his security team to take "all necessary precautions," the White House said. Obama still planned to travel to New York on Sunday to mark the 10th anniversary with stops that day at the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pa.

Washington commuters were well aware of the terror talk.

Cheryl Francis, of Chantilly, Va., said she travels over the Roosevelt bridge into Washington every day and doesn't plan to change her habits. Francis, who was in Washington on Sept. 11, 2001, said a decade later the country is more aware and alert.

"It's almost like sleeping with one eye open," she said, but she added that people need to continue living their lives.

The intelligence community regularly receives tips and information of this nature. But the timing of this particular threat had officials especially concerned, because it was the first "active plot" that came to light as the country marked the significant anniversary, a moment that was also significant to al-Qaida, according to information gleaned in May from Osama bin Laden's compound.

The U.S. government has long known that terrorists see the 10th anniversary of 9/11 and other uniquely American dates as opportunities to strike. Officials have also been concerned that some may see this anniversary as an opportunity to avenge bin Laden's death.

Britain, meanwhile, warned its citizens who are traveling to the U.S. that there was a potential for new terror attacks that could include "places frequented by expatriates and foreign travelers."

Acutely aware of these factors, law enforcement around the country had already increased security measures at airports, nuclear plants, train stations and more in the weeks leading up to Sept. 11. The latest threat, potentially targeting New York or Washington, prompted an even greater security surge in those cities. U.S. embassies and consulates abroad had also boosted their vigilance in preparation for the anniversary.

At Penn Station in New York, transit authority police carried assault rifles and wore helmets and bullet proof vests as they watched crowds of commuters. Police searched passengers' bags as they entered the subway, and National Guard troops in camouflage fatigues moved among riders, eyeing packages.

In Washington, Police Chief Cathy Lanier warned that unattended cars parked in suspicious locations or near critical buildings and structures would be towed.

Speaking in New York, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said there was "a specific, credible but unconfirmed report that al-Qaida, again, is seeking to harm Americans and in particular, to target New York and Washington."

___
By EILEEN SULLIVAN - Associated Press,KIMBERLY DOZIER - Associated Press | AP Associated Press writers Lolita C. Baldor, Christopher Hawley, Colleen Long and Samantha Gross in New York, Ben Feller, Jessica Grescko, Matthew Lee, and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report.





Europe eyes merits of boosting growth to cut debt


Posted: 2011-09-09 17:23:59 UTC-04:00




 After months of talk that Europe can only be saved by slashing its spending, a growing chorus of voices is calling for a new tack, encouraging governments to instead stimulate growth — even if that means spending money.

As a slowdown in the global economic recovery threatens to undo Europe's austerity efforts, experts are reviving a fundamental debate on how best to dig out of the crisis of high debt and low growth.

One view has been to cut debt regardless of short-term consequences on growth. But as slower growth eats away at those austerity plans' progress, economists have been reconsidering the merits of boosting growth to lower debt.

Germany, which is shouldering much of the cost of propping up its weaker eurozone neighbors, has been one of the most fervent advocates of spending cuts. The European Central Bank has also chimed in, hounding countries like Italy to pass austerity measures as a sign they're worthy of receiving help.

Even European countries like France that are in better shape have been trying to calm skittish investors — and drive down their borrowing rates — by promising to cut costs.

But those measures have drawn fierce criticism that they risk driving the recovery into reverse and heap more pain onto those who can least afford it.

Instead, the U.S. and others have a different answer: It's growth, stupid.

As President Barack Obama unveiled a huge plan to boost job creation, U.S. Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner called on other governments to strengthen economic growth as he prepared to meet officials from the world's most developed economies in Marseille, France, on Friday.

The argument put forth by Geithner and others is that the best deficit-reducer is growth: When the economy is humming, it offsets spending and drives down both the size and the proportion of deficits. Rather than trying to scrimp their way back to prosperity, world economies need to spend money to make money.

"The best strategy for reducing public debt is to promote growth-enhancing fiscal policies," the U.N. Conference on Trade and Development recommended in a report released this week.

What's more, many argue that the danger of too much austerity is that it can put a stranglehold on growth by weighing companies down with taxes and making it harder for them to borrow money and hire more workers. That will only feed a viscious cycle of indebtedness.

Greece is one example. It agreed to slash costs in order to receive billions in bailout funds, and Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker who also chairs the group of eurozone finance ministers insisted on Wednesday that Athens wouldn't get its next tranche of loans unless it kept those commitments. If Greece doesn't get those loans, it could default.

But its austerity plan is proving futile as it slips deeper into recession: It now expects its economy to contract by 4.5 to 5.3 percent this year, far more than the 3.5 percent drop in GDP that was forecast in May.

Charles Wyplosz, a professor of economics at the Graduate Institute in Geneva, says it's unreasonable to ask any economy in recession to reduce its deficit.

"Governments have to support growth before they think about reducing deficits," he said. "It's not the time to punish countries. It's the time to stop the crisis."

Athens appears to be slowly coming around to that way of thinking, though all its decisions are reviewed and approved by its bailout creditors. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos now says his main concern is reversing the economic contraction. The opposition has long called for tax cuts — rather than the increases pushed through by the government to secure bailout funds — in order to restart the economy.

Spain is trying to walk a similar path. The Socialist government had approved cuts that it hopes will slash the deficit from 11.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 to within the EU limit of 3 percent by 2013.

But with unemployment at nearly 21 percent and a general election on Nov. 20, both parties are turning their focus toward growth. The Socialists say they'll raise taxes on the wealthy and banks and use the revenue to create jobs, while their opponents in the Popular Party want to lower taxes for new businesses.

Initially, many European governments did not have much choice but to pass strict austerity plans to convince volatile markets that they would not default. But in a country like Greece, where many investors are resigned to a default anyway, experts are wondering whether they shouldn't try leaning more towards growth.

Germany, however, is holding firm. Earlier this week, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble wrote in the Financial Times that cutting spending was "the only cure for the eurozone."

"Piling on more debt now will stunt rather than stimulate growth in the long run," said Schaeuble, insisting countries faced with high levels of debt need to cut spending, increase revenues and make their economies competitive, "however politically painful."

The debate is mostly about Europe, but Paul Krugman, an economist and columnist for the New York Times, said that the U.S. was falling into a similar trap: fretting about its debt limit while failing to create any new jobs.

"The deficits we're running right now — deficits we should be running, because deficit spending helps support a depressed economy — are no threat at all," Krugman wrote in a column earlier this month. "And by obsessing over a nonexistent threat, Washington has been making the real problem — mass unemployment, which is eating away at the foundations of our nation — much worse."

Even those who support budget reductions in Europe might agree. The U.S. has different circumstances, after all.

Despite its enormous debt load, America's bonds are still in high demand, with their traditional role as havens of safety in times of turmoil intact. That keeps borrowing costs very low — unlike in Spain and Italy, where some fear interest rates could go so high that they'll eventually need bailouts.

___
By SARAH DiLORENZO - AP Business Writer | AP Greg Keller and Gabriele Steinhauser in Marseille, Nicholas Paphitis in Athens, Harold Heckle in Madrid, and Barry Hatton in Lisbon contributed to this report.





Smoking marijuana not linked to obesity: study


Posted: 2011-09-09 17:21:07 UTC-04:00


 People who smoke marijuana may be prone to "the munchies," but surprisingly, they are less likely than non-smokers to pack on the pounds, suggests a recent study from France.

Analyzing data covering more than 50,000 American adults, researchers found that roughly 14 percent to 17 percent of the people reporting that they smoked pot at least three days per week were obese. That compared with a 22 to 25 percent obesity rate among people who said they had not used pot in the past 12 months.

"Initially, we thought we made a mistake," said Dr. Yann Le Strat, a psychiatrist at the Louis-Mourier Hospital in Colombes, France. He and co-author Dr. Bernard Le Foll had to check the results several times to make sure they were correct, Le Strat said.

"This is only a preliminary result," Le Strat told Reuters Health. "It doesn't mean that marijuana does actually help you lose weight, but perhaps there is a component that does."

The study, published in the American Journal of Epidemiology, included two surveys of U.S. adults - one covering 43,000 people, the other about 9,300 respondents. Both had been conducted by branches of the U.S. National Institutes of Health between 2001 and 2003.

The larger of the surveys found 14 percent of pot smokers were obese compared to 22 percent who didn't smoke pot. Similarly, the smaller survey found 17 percent of pot smokers to be obese compared to 25 percent of non-smokers.

Of all respondents to both surveys, between four percent and seven percent said they smoked pot at least three times a week.

Whether or not they smoked cigarettes as well had no influence on the obesity findings.

The researchers did not look at whether diet and exercise habits were different in pot smokers and non-smokers.

According to another recent survey, from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, pot use is on the rise in the U.S. Almost 18 million Americans used marijuana in 2010, an increase from about 15 million in 2007.

Scientists have researched the role of various molecules within marijuana smoke that produce the high feeling, block pain, and may underlie the hunger for food typically provoked by pot use.

Cannabinoids, molecules similar to natural signaling chemicals in the body, are believed to be key to stimulating appetite. So much so that in 2006, a drug called Rimonabant, designed to work against cannabinoids, was developed.

Rimonabant was approved in more than 30 countries -- but not in the U.S. -- for the treatment of obesity. But the drug was pulled off shelves two years later because of an increased risk of suicide among users.

Whether cannabinoids are the only appetite stimulants in pot smoke, or whether other chemicals might account for the effect, remains to be seen the researchers say.

In the meantime, Dr. Vincenzo Di Marzo, a professor at the Institute of Biomolecular Chemistry in Pozzuoli, Italy, who was not part of the study, wasn't at all surprised by its results. "There's no evidence that repeated marijuana use can increase body weight."

Di Marzo cautions that the study does not show that smoking pot helps you lose weight, but he does believe it's a starting point for future research.

Le Strat echoed the sentiment and also warned against experimenting with pot as a diet aid.

"I see people living with marijuana dependence," Le Strat explained. "I hope people don't interpret the results to mean that if they use marijuana, they'll lose weight."
By Linda Thrasybule | Reuters 





Honda recalls 310,773 Pilots in the US


Posted: 2011-09-09 17:17:26 UTC-04:00


Honda Motor Co. says it is recalling 310,773 Pilot vehicles in the U.S. to inspect and potentially replace the front seat belts due to problems with the belts' stitching.

Honda said Friday it is voluntarily recalling Pilots from the 2009 through 2011 model years.

The automaker says that the driver- and front-passenger seat belts may have been manufactured improperly.

The stitching connecting the lap section of the belts to the outboard anchor webbing may be incomplete or missing. That means the belts may potentially come loose in a crash, increasing the risk of injury.

Honda says there have been no injuries because of the defects.

Honda wants owners of the recall-affected Pilots to take them to an authorized dealer for inspection when they receive a recall notice.

source ap.org






Taliban plan abductions to free bin Laden family


Posted: 2011-09-09 13:51:25 UTC-04:00




Pakistani Taliban militants plan to kidnap senior Pakistani officials to pressure authorities to release relatives of Osama bin Laden detained after the al Qaeda leader was killed, Interior Minister Rehman Malik said on Friday.

Bin Laden's wives and several of his children are being held by authorities in the South Asian nation, where the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), or Taliban Movement of Pakistan, and al Qaeda have been building an alliance for years.

"Intelligence agencies have issued an alert that the TTP have plans to kidnap top people in Pakistan," Malik told Reuters.

It was not possible to immediately verify the report.

"They are planning to use (hostages) as bargaining chips to demand the release of members of Osama's family in exchange."

Bin Laden's relatives were detained after U.S. special forces killed him in a raid in the garrison town of Abbottabad on May 2.

Pakistan's Foreign Ministry had said bin Laden's wives, one from Yemen and two from Saudi Arabia, would be repatriated, but a government-appointed commission investigating bin Laden's killing prevented repatriation.

The Pakistani Taliban, who pose the biggest security threat to the U.S.-backed Islamabad government, have staged several suicide bombings in Pakistan to avenge bin Laden's death.

They have demonstrated ability to carry out high-profile attacks, including a raid on army headquarters in Rawalpindi in 2009 in which the Taliban took more than 40 people hostage.

Sunday marks the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks on the United States, which killed nearly 3,000 people. Pakistan joined the U.S. "war on terror" after 9/11 and has lost about 5,000 soldiers and security forces fighting militant groups based along the unruly border with Afghanistan.

An estimated 30,000 civilians were killed in the violence.

Bin Laden's youngest wife, Amal Ahmed Abdulfattah, told Pakistani investigators in May that she and her family lived for five years in a compound in Abbottabad.

Suspicions grew in Washington that some members of Pakistan's powerful security establishment knew bin Laden was living there.

Pakistan, which denied any knowledge of his whereabouts, was enraged because it was not informed of the U.S. Navy SEALs raid that killed bin Laden.

Malik said security had been beefed up after the Taliban kidnap threat.

The TTP is holding more than 20 young tribesmen hostage in an area straddling the border with Afghanistan and have demanded the release of scores of prisoners and an end to tribal elders' support of offensives against them.

The teenage tribesmen from Pakistan's northwestern Bajaur tribal region were abducted by the militants on August 31 while on an outing in Afghanistan's border province of Kunar.
By Sheree Sardar | Reuters(Writing by Augustine Anthony; Editing by Michael Georgy)





NATO says 4 service members killed in Afghanistan


Posted: 2011-09-09 13:47:03 UTC-04:00


NATO says four of its service members have been killed in two separate attacks in eastern and southern Afghanistan.

It said in a statement that three died in an insurgent attack in the east, and one in a roadside bomb explosion in the south. It did not release further details or the nationalities of those killed, but said all died on Friday.

The deaths raise the number of international troops killed in September to 11. A total of 334 members of the international military coalition have died do far this year.

source ap.org






Patrick concerned about racing next week in Japan


Posted: 2011-09-09 13:42:33 UTC-04:00




Danica Patrick says she is concerned about traveling to Japan for the Sept. 18 IndyCar race at Twin Ring Motegi.

MotoGP postponed their April race until October because of concerns stemming from the earthquake and tsunami that devastated the country earlier this year. But IndyCar is going forward with its event and Patrick questioned the wisdom of that decision.

She cited concerns with possible high radiation levels in food and water, and earthquakes that have occurred since the March disaster.

Patrick also said it made little sense to proceed with the race because IndyCar had already compromised by moving from the oval track to the road course, and the series is not planning to return there next season.
By JENNA FRYER - AP Auto Racing Writer | AP





Sarkozy keeps Twin Towers memento from 9/11


Posted: 2011-09-09 08:10:22 UTC-04:00


French President Nicolas Sarkozy said Friday he remembers being dumbstruck at seeing TV images of the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center, and still keeps a small steel block retrieved from the twin towers rubble in his office as a reminder.

Sarkozy — seen as one of France's most pro-American presidents in recent years — attended a ceremony at the United States Embassy in Paris ahead of Sunday's 10-year anniversary of the attacks.

"On this day of September 11, every French person felt hit," Sarkozy said. "The barbarians chose New York as the epicenter, but it could have been Paris."

"Ten years later, (Osama) Bin Laden is dead. Al-Qaida is decapitated. Afghanistan is no more the sanctuary of darkness where terrorists planned their attacks around the world unpunished."

Speaking with reporters afterward, Sarkozy — the then mayor of the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine — recalled how he'd just returned from lunch to his office, and was aghast at the images.

"I remember the blue sky, the images without sound ... it was like in slow motion," said Sarkozy. "I was stupefied."

He said he still keeps a small memento — holding his hands together as if to hold a melon-sized object — extracted from the rubble of the towers, and given to him by a victims' association.

France on Sunday is to commemorate the attacks with the erection near the Eiffel Tower of a temporary nine-story scaled-down replica of the towers bearing the victims' names.

U.S. Ambassador Charles Rivkin, in an interview with The Associated Press, said the U.S.-French relationship has improved since Sept-11 and "I don't think it could get better."

"On that day here in France Le Monde (newspaper) said 'On est tous americains' — 'We are all Americans' — and I think that spirit continues today," he said
By JAMEY KEATEN - Associated Press | AP





Credit Union Finds New Way of Giving Back


Posted: 2011-09-09 08:07:11 UTC-04:00


Arizona Central Credit Union has partnered with Deals That Matter to help raise funds for the Children’s Miracle Network and Phoenix Children’s Hospital. Credit union members sign up to receive daily deals from local businesses, and 15% of each sale is donated back to support the hospital.Phoeniz, AZ (PRWEB) September 09, 2011
“This really is a winning combination,” said Kellee Dominguez, Arizona Central Credit Union Community Development Manager. “Our members get a great deal, we’re helping to support local businesses, and we’re raising funds for a worthy cause.”




All money raised through this program goes to support the One Darn Cool School located at the Phoenix Children’s Hospital. The school helps children stay current on their classroom commitments and brings a sense of normalcy while they are hospitalized.



The school staff members also help children prepare for re-entry into school once their hospital stay has ended.



“The school plays an important role in the child’s recovery, and I’m glad we can support their efforts through unique partnerships like Deals That Matter,” said Arizona Central Credit Union President/CEO Todd Pearson.



About Deals That Matter

Deals That Matter recently launched in Phoenix, Arizona, delivering new deals every day. Deals That Matter has a unique mission to not only offer amazing daily deals, but donate a portion of the proceeds to supporting local charities. While Deals That Matter supports hundreds of causes, they are also the exclusive daily deal partner for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. Phoenix, Ariz., is their tenth market to open. Deals That Matter opened in October 2010 with a focus on philanthropy.



About Arizona Central Credit Union

Founded in 1939, Arizona Central Credit Union is a not-for-profit cooperative serving 60,000 members across Arizona with full-service financial solutions. Current assets exceed $400 million backed by a 70-year tradition of financial strength, stability and service. Deposits are federally insured up to $250,000 by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). 
source PRWeb.com





NPRA Responds to President Obama's Jobs Speech


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:55:37 UTC-04:00


"The most effective actions President Obama can take to create jobs would be to lift the unprecedented and unwarranted regulatory burdens his administration has imposed on American manufacturers and stop trying to raise energy taxes.



"Instead of wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on subsidies that line the pockets of executives of so-called 'clean energy' companies that can't stay in business and can't keep workers employed, President Obama should follow his own advice in his speech and back a tax code that 'should give an advantage to companies that invest and create jobs here in America.'



"Companies that manufacture fuels and petrochemicals and that produce oil and natural gas support more than 9 million American jobs - and can create many more if only President Obama will stop throwing regulatory roadblocks and proposed tax increases in our path. Enabling these proven and reliable energy companies to grow and create jobs in an environmentally safe manner will generate higher tax collections for government at all levels.



"Denouncing nonexistent 'tax loopholes for oil companies' may be a good applause line, but singling out energy companies for counterproductive and discriminatory tax hikes is a sure-fire way to destroy jobs and raise energy costs for the American people."









SOURCE National Petrochemical & Refiners Association






Obama tells Congress to pass $447 bn jobs plan


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:50:28 UTC-04:00




US President Barack Obama has told Republicans to halt a "political circus" and immediately pass a $447 billion jobs plan to jolt the stalled economy and cheer a disillusioned nation.

"These are difficult years for our country. But we are Americans. We are tougher than the times that we live in, and we are bigger than our politics have been," Obama said late Thursday in a speech to a polarized Congress.

"So let's meet the moment," he said, seeking to restore public trust in his leadership with a plan that mixes tax cuts and investments and takes aim at 9.1 percent unemployment which is threatening his 2012 reelection bid.

A combative Obama, standing before a large US flag in the House of Representatives, said his American Jobs Act would get people back to work and put more money into the pockets of those who had jobs.

"It will provide a jolt to an economy that has stalled... You should pass this jobs plan right away.

"I intend to take that message to every corner of this country."

The bitterly divided nature of Washington was reflected as Obama belted out his speech. Democrats cheered plans for investment, Republicans stonily sat through his calls for higher taxes on the wealthy.

Prospects for Obama's plan are uncertain given blanket Republican opposition to new spending not balanced by immediate budget cuts and a deeply polarized political climate already agitated by the coming election.

Mitt Romney, fighting fellow front-runner Rick Perry to be the Republican pick to take on the president next year, issued a quick campaign video, arguing America had lost nearly 2.5 million jobs since Obama took office.

"Mr President, you are 960 days late," it said.

But Republican House speaker John Boehner, who may dictate the fate of Obama's plan, offered a response more conciliatory in tone from the fiery rhetoric of a debt showdown in July.

"The proposals the president outlined tonight merit consideration. We hope he gives serious consideration to our ideas as well."

Senator Marco Rubio, a rising star in Republican politics, was also polite, but warned "a lot of it sounds like things we?ve already tried, such as more government spending."

Outside the United States, the plan was welcomed by International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde, who said Obama's proposals would "focus on supporting growth and job creation in the short term."

Obama says his plan, worth half the amount of his 2009 stimulus program opposed by Republicans, will be fully paid for by spending cuts in years to come when the economic crisis has past.

He has already warned that if the plan is blocked he will hold Republicans to account at the polls and accuse them of putting a desire to eject him from the White House above a patriotic duty to revive the economy.

The centerpiece of the plan is a deeper than expected $240 billion payroll tax cut for employers and employees meant to keep money in the pockets of those most in need, spur demand and encourage firms to hire new workers.

Obama hit back at Republican critics who complain about White House proposals to raise taxes on the richest Americans and close corporate tax loopholes.

"This isn't political grandstanding. This isn't class warfare. This is simple math.

"I'm pretty sure I know what most Americans would choose. It's not even close and it's time for us to do what?s right for our future."

The plan's $447 billion price tag contains $175 billion to cut employee payroll taxes in half, to 3.1 percent in 2012.

The taxes fund the Social Security retirement and Medicare health plan for senior citizens, and officials said the cuts were a way to get money directly into the pockets of those who need it most and those most likely to spend it.

One administration official said that using payroll taxes to spur demand was an "elegant" way to ensure that people "have more money in your check, more money in your pocket."

Obama also proposed a $50 billion program to invest in highways, railroad and airport modernizations, which officials said would put hundreds of thousands of construction workers back to work.

He called on Congress to provide $10 billion to capitalize a national infrastructure bank to leverage private and public capital to invest in a broad range of projects.

He also proposed a $35 billion program to prevent layoffs of 280,000 teachers and to keep police and firefighters on the job, in a bid to stem local and state government layoffs that are inflating unemployment figures.

Other projects included:

-- A $30 billion project to modernize 35,000 public schools.

-- A "returning heroes" tax credit to spur hiring of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans

-- A $49 billion plan to reform an extend insurance payments for the long-term unemployed.

Analysts and industry groups gave a mixed response to the plan.

US Chamber of Commerce CEO Thomas Donohue said Obama's "ideas appear to fall short" and called for the president to "unshackle" businesses by cutting regulations.

Lawrence Mishel, of the non-partisan Economic Policy Institute, said however that the plan was a "serious, solid effort" that could save or create several million jobs.
By Stephen Collinson | AFP





Dollar General stock offering is priced


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:48:03 UTC-04:00


Dollar General Corp. said Friday that a secondary public offering of 25 million shares is being priced at $34.75 per share, slightly below it most recent closing price.

The stock is being sold by shareholders, and the underwriters have been given an option by some of those shareholders to buy up to an additional 3.8 million shares.

The discount store operator will not receive any proceeds from the offering.

The offering is expected to close on Wednesday.

The price is 25 cents below Dollar General's closing price of $35 on Thursday. In premarket trading on Friday, its shares fell 40 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $34.60. Its shares have traded in a 52-week range of $26.65 to $37.13.

Last month Dollar General reported that its second-quarter earnings rose 3 percent, with its adjusted results beating Wall Street's expectations. The Goodlettsville, Tenn. company also raised the low end of its full-year adjusted earnings forecast.

source ap.org








Greek debt swap hangs in balance


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:43:24 UTC-04:00




A debt swap meant to help Greece avoid default and win time to repair its tattered public finances hung in the balance on Friday with expectations of take-up by private creditors slipping amid fierce European pressure on Athens.

Banks and insurers were due to indicate by Friday whether they intend to join the bond exchange, part of a planned second international bailout package agreed in July which is in doubt due to Greece's failure to meet its fiscal targets.

Officials said they expect a take-up rate of about 70 percent, well short of the original 90 percent target, which would see 135 billion euros ($189 billion) of Greek bonds maturing by 2020 swapped or rolled over in a global transaction.

Greece had threatened to cancel the deal unless it got 90 percent participation but is in no position to walk away as it already faces the threat of its EU partners blocking bailout loans if it does not improve its debt-cutting performance.

"Even with a participation rate of 70 percent or better, which is my current view, (it) will proceed," said an Athens-based banker close to the procedures.

No official announcement of the take-up rate was expected on Friday, but a source close to the scheme said a bigger response rate was likely "as bond holders rush on the last day."

Germany and its north European allies made private sector involvement one condition for a second rescue of Greece by international lenders, but it is unclear how any shortfall will be met if participation is lower than initially forecast.

The euro and Greek bank shares fell and the cost of insuring Greek debt against default soared above 3,000 basis points on the deadline day.

The market moves reflected investor worries about the debt swap but also over an impasse in Athens' negotiations with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, and the wider impact of the euro zone debt crisis for banks' solvency.

IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde renewed her call to European countries on Friday to take urgent action to recapitalize banks at risk from their sovereign debt exposure.

Speaking hours before she attends a meeting of Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers in Marseille, France, Lagarde said: "In view of the heightened risks and uncertainties -- and the need to convince markets -- some banks need additional capital.

"We must not underestimate the risks of a further spread of economic weakness, or even a debilitating liquidity crisis. That is why action is needed so urgently so that banks can return to the business of financing economic activity," she said.

EU officials have publicly brushed off Lagarde's call and disputed the IMF's estimates of banks' capital needs.

But an EU official involved in crisis management said privately there was concern in Brussels that "negative feedback loops" between sovereign debt and the banking sector were materializing and could cause problems for some euro zone banks.

GREEK TALKS IMPASSE

EU and IMF inspectors suspended talks and went home last week after Greece admitted this year's budget deficit would be well above the target set in its first 110 billion euro rescue program and failed to present a draft 2012 budget.

European partners have since ratcheted up pressure on Athens, warning it will not get the next 8 billion euro tranche of vital loans due this month if it does not improve fiscal discipline.

Some senior politicians in Germany, the Netherlands and Finland are suggesting Greece may have to leave the euro zone, although Dutch Economy Minister Maxime Verhagen said a Dutch proposal for a European fiscal discipline "czar" was not intended to push Greece out.

Governments in northern Europe are under pressure from public opinion angry at euro zone bailouts, fuelling support for populist Euro skeptical parties such as the True Finns, Finland's main opposition party.

True Finns leader Timo Soini told Reuters Insider television in an interview that Greece was bound to default and prolonging bailouts would only make matters worse by pouring in taxpayers' money to support "cheats."

"With Greece it is clear that they cheated -- some of their politicians. Of course the ordinary people are in trouble and they are innocent in this one, but if the political system doesn't fix itself then the consequences are really hard," he said.

"We think also that those countries that cannot follow the rules, they must exit the system. Or the other option is that countries like Finland, Holland, maybe Germany, leave because they cannot pay any more."

Euro zone ministers faced pressure from the United States and Japan as well as the IMF at the G7 meeting to get a grip on the debt crisis, which has spread beyond the three countries under assistance programs -- Greece, Ireland and Portugal.

The European Central Bank has had to intervene in the bond market to buy Italian and Spanish government debt after those countries' borrowing costs soared in August, forcing both to adopt new austerity measures.

In one glimmer of positive news in the euro zone debt crisis, EU and IMF inspectors reported that Ireland was on course in implementing its deficit-cutting commitments, and its public deficit was likely to fall to 8.6 percent in 2012, better than the 8.8 percent target in its adjustment program.

Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny said the quarterly progress report was international recognition that Ireland can emerge from its bailout.

However, the official lenders noted that the implementation of reforms of the Irish financial sector, the collapse of which forced Dublin to seek emergency loans, would remain challenging in the near term.
By George Georgiopoulos | Reuters  (Additional reporting by Alan Wheatley and Mark Cotton in London, Jan Strupczewski and Philip Blenkinsop in Brussels; Writing by Paul Taylor, editing by Mike Peacock)





Oil below $88 after Obama announces jobs bill


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:39:51 UTC-04:00


Oil prices fell below $88 a barrel Friday as the dollar strengthened and investors mulled whether a new U.S. jobs package will help boost crude demand.

By early afternoon in Europe, benchmark oil for October delivery was down $1.35 to $87.70 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude fell 29 cents to finish at $89.05 on Thursday.

In London, Brent crude for October delivery retreated 33 cents to $114.22 on the ICE Futures exchange.

In a bid to spark economic growth, President Barack Obama announced Thursday a $447 billion package for creating jobs.

The plan would slash the pension payroll taxes for tens of millions of workers and employers. It would also include $105 billion in public works projects and the renewal of $50 billion in unemployment benefits for about 6 million Americans at risk of losing jobless insurance. Congress must approve the bill.

The effects of a stronger dollar, which makes crude more expensive for investors holding other currencies, neutralized the support for oil prices coming from developing storms in the Gulf of Mexico and the risk they entail for oil production in the area.

"The dollar rally was a symptom of the nagging uneasiness over Europe's continuing sovereign debt worries," U.S. energy consultancy Cameron Hanover said in a report.

On Friday, the euro was down to $1.3815 from $1.3876 late Thursday, while the dollar rose to 77.83 yen from 77.54 yen.

As of Thursday, the Gulf of Mexico's crude output was still nearly 15 percent below normal levels because of the lingering effects of Tropical Storm Lee, while another severe storm, Nate, was expected to turn into a hurricane during the weekend.

"Production losses since the start of the week should amount to about 2 million barrels," analysts at Commerzbank in Frankfurt said. "This should support a further fall in U.S. crude inventories, after stocks dropped by 4 million barrels already last week ... which was double the expected decline."

Crude prices were helped by slowing inflation in China. Annual consumer prices rose 6.2 percent last month, cooling from a 37-month high of 6.5 percent in July. Investors are hoping that China may stop raising interest rates and allow faster economic growth.

Some analysts argue that fears about weakening global economic growth, which helped push crude down to $76 last month, are overblown and demand will outstrip supply long-term.

"Stop fretting about the gloom and doom of oil," Blue Ocean Brokerage said in a report. "We can't make this stuff fast enough even in a weak economic scenario. It's a finite commodity with infinite demand."

In other Nymex trading for October contracts, heating oil fell 2.07 cents to $3.0236 per gallon and gasoline futures dropped 3.23 cents at $2.8529 per gallon. Natural gas for October delivery lost 2.3 cents to $3.957 per 1,000 cubic feet.

___
By PABLO GORONDI - Associated Press | AP  Alex Kennedy in Singapore contributed to this report.





Biden: Obama willing to work with GOP on jobs plan


Posted: 2011-09-09 07:35:48 UTC-04:00




Vice President Joe Biden says the Obama administration is willing to compromise with Republicans on a job-creation program if they come up with "a better idea."

At the same time, Biden says the administration is "not prepared to compromise in terms of doing nothing." He says many Americans "are hanging on the edge" and Washington must help.

Biden appeared on a morning television show a day after President Barack Obama proposed a nearly $450 billion program to attack chronic high unemployment.

House Republican leader Eric Cantor says he believes the GOP can work with the Democrats to act fairly soon. Appearing with Biden on CBS's "The Early Show" Friday, the Virginia Republican also says his party will compromise so long as the president doesn't insist on an "all-or-nothing" approach.

source ap.org






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


