Fresh Air | Living Water | Allergy Relief - Ecomajik Home







Ecomajik Home




About Ecomajik











Ecomajik Home




About Ecomajik







Top



Ecomajik Home




About Ecomajik





Ecomajik Environmental Purity Systems



Login




Allergy Relief




Austism, Children & Environments




Is Your Drinking Water Hazardous To Your Health?




Kill the flu bug dead




How Safe Is Your Bottled Water?





Products



AIr Purifier Technologies




Laundry Pure




Vollara Living Water




Hawaii Vog A Dangerous Health Hazard




Vollara Distributors Wanted





Articles



Articles by Carl Braun




RSS Feeds





Press Releases



Ecomajik in The News











TuesdayMay312011


Got Allergies?

 Tuesday, May 31, 2011 at 06:48PM 

Most Americans, in fact most humans suffer from some type of allergy year-round. Mold spores, airborne allergens and even exposure to such seemingly mundane products like laundry detergents can make life...well...miserable. I know. Each year I had to take OTC or prescription drugs that would make my allergies go away and see and breathe clearly again. Trouble was though those drugs worked ok sometimes on the symptoms, the allergens were still present and I felt "drugged" and lethargic all the time despite the perky commercials telling me I'd feel great! Know what I mean?
I drove my wife crazy with laundry detergent. I had the "creepy crawlies" all the time from one detergent or another. I smelled like the stinky aisle at the grocery store and no matter what hypoallergenic, no stink, fragrance free product she picked out, I was itchy 24/7. Is this you?
One day I got a call from a gentlemen looking to buy advertising on one of my internet sites. I ran a very successful advertising firm and one of my sites focused on "green" products and employers.  He told me about his Space Certified products that removed nearly all allergens, bacteria, germs and mold from the air. He piqued my interest. Sniffle sniffle. Please tell me more. 
He then told me this same product killed all viruses like H1N1, MRSA, CDIF, E-Coli, Staph, etc in the air AND on surfaces and that his products were used by hospitals, childcare centers, doctors offices and were now available for the home and business. The technology was developed for NASA for use aboard the Space Shuttle and International Space Station and now was within reach of most Americans. 
I was skeptical but when he offered to loan me a unit for a week I figured what the hay? I had tried everything else, why not give it a whirl.
The Product called the Fresh Air Surround changed my life. Imagine sleeping the night straight through and waking up without a bunch of "schmuckies" in your nose. NO headaches. Clear thinking. Refreshed and ready to go. Here I was breathing fresh clean air all day long and having a germ and virus free environment. I got a smaller unit for the office (the big one does 3,000 sq feet and the smaller one does 1500 sq feet.) I bought one for my car and my RV (these look like a radar detector). The Fresh Air Surround is not an air filter. It uses five different technologies to scrub the air and surfaces and is about the size of a bookshelf speaker.
So what about the "heebie jeebies"? My skin still crawled faster than a rabbit in a road race. He said his company used the same technology to create a product that cleaned your laundry without detergent and without hot water. What???? Are you kidding me????
The device hooks up to your clothes washer. Its about the size of a DVD player and hangs on the wall behind the machine. For a year now we have not used any detergent and our clothes are sparkling clean, have no scent or odor whatsoever and are largely germ and bacteria free.
Now please understand that I am not a doctor nor do I make any claims that these products will cure any disease or malady. I can only realet to you annecdotally what they have done for me.
But you don't have to take my word for it. Try either unit yourself  for 7 days risk free and like me, you may find you cannot...will not live without them. What have you got to lose except creepy crawlies and schmuckies? I mean really? 
So send me an email or give me a call. If you're in the Austin-Round Rock-Georgetown Texas area, I will personally deliver your loaner unit and set it up for you. Outside of the area i will refer you to a local dealer that will loan you a system at zero risk and zero up front dollars.
Carl Braun
512-222-PURE (7873)
carl@ecomajik.com
  



  Ecomajik Companies |   2 Comments |   Share Article  








MondayMay302011


How safe is your bottled water?

 Monday, May 30, 2011 at 09:18PM 


By Carl Braun
The bottled water industry has exploded in the last ten years as the public’s confidence in municipal water systems declines. This is particularly interesting as more than 40% of all bottled waters come from municipal sources. Billions of bottles of water are consumed each year imported from far away places like Fiji to a hose in somebody’s garage. Is the bottled water you are drinking, good for you, not so great or maybe even contributing to health issues?
We decided to test a few of the more popular brands for pH or potential hydrogen to see what the results would be. pH is very important for a number of reasons. Our bodies must operate at pH neutral or 7.365. In fact our body will do everything it can to maintain that level in our blood even if it means stealing minerals from our organs and bones to do it. Water is a chief source of the minerals our bodies need to maintain the balance. A pH chart runs from 0-14 with the numbers less than 7 being more acidic as you progress towards zero and more alkaline as you go right to 14.
If water has a pH lower than 7.0, it becomes increasingly more difficult for our bodies to absorb the water molecules as the more acidic water is, the larger the cluster of water molecules. In contrast the more alkaline water is, or over 7.0 pH, the easier it is to absorb the water molecules, as the clusters are smaller. If your body is acidic it becomes a breeding ground for disease as 80% of all diseases like cancer for example, thrive in an acidic environment while they cannot exist in an alkaline environment. As you can see from the chart, cancer cells begin to form at 5.8 pH and below.
So given this, our goal would be to find bottled water that has a minimal pH of 7.0 to 9.5 pH (ingesting any water higher than 9.5 pH is not recommended). We used a Milwaukee Instruments pH 600 digital tester. Two ounces of each sample was placed in a clear plastic cup and the meter remained in the water for exactly 30 seconds. The tester was washed in pH neutral water at 7.0 between each test. The waters tested were Aquafina, Dasani, Smart Water and Evian though almost all bottled waters, will yield similar results. We then compared the bottled water to San Diego tap water.
Evian scored a 7.0 pH or neutral while the others were 5.1 to 5.8 pH. San Diego tap water scored a 7.1 as well. Factors that can influence the bottled water reading include how long the water has been on the shelf, and whether it has been exposed to light or heat; all of which will raise the acidity of the water. While one may be tempted to scoff at the mere 2.0 difference between a reading of 5.0 and 7.0, it should be noted that the pH scale is logarithmic, which means that a score of 5.0 is 100 times more acidic than a score of 7.0. Putting that further in perspective, a can of soda with 3.5 pH (yikes) is 1 million times more acidic than 9.5 pH alkaline drinking water.
What can we conclude from this unscientific test? That most bottled waters are mildly to strongly acidic and therefore may contribute to your body’s state of acidosis. They are not necessarily hydrating you and that some can actually flush the essential electrolytes from your body without hydrating you at all. Your best bet in bottled water is to drink mineral water, which will generally have higher pH levels (better absorption) and add healthy minerals to your diet. Paying attention to the pH levels of foods that you eat and the liquids you consume will help you lead a healthier and happier life. Here is a great video that describes how pH effects your health.
The author is an environmental purity consultant and not a medical professional. As always you should consult your doctor before making any changes to your diet. You can reach the author at carl@ecomajik.com 



  Ecomajik Companies |   2 Comments |   Share Article  







 
 

  
              Copyright © 2010, Ecomajik Companies.  All rights reserved.
      
  
      
  
    
 

