Daily Inspire News™ - powered by FeedBurner
&



Daily Inspire News™

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



DEAL REACHED TO AVERT LOOMING TRANSPORTATION SHUTDOWN


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 20:16:59 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(POLITICO) House and Senate leaders have reached a deal that averts a looming shutdown of federal highway and aviation programs, a key GOP lawmaker said Friday.
The bill would authorize programs of the Federal Aviation Administration through  January and surface transportation laws through March. Highway programs would be  funded at the fiscal 2011 rate — $41.7 billion — far above the $27 billion  approved in their budget earlier this year. Because the extension is for six  months and not a full year, the actual amount authorized is half of the fiscal  2011 level. The FAA would get about $5.4 billion for the four-month period  beginning in October and ending Jan. 31.
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica (R-Fla.)  secured an agreement from GOP leaders to find revenue later to ensure that the  money spent from the highway trust fund on the short-term extension does not  leave him without the funds necessary to win approval of a long-term  reauthorization of surface transportation laws next year, according to a GOP  source.
The deal intertwined two short-term extensions of transportation laws that  had been moving on separate tracks earlier in the day.




U.S. INTEL: NO SIGN OF ENTRY FOR TERROR PLOT


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 19:55:00 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(AP) U.S. intelligence agencies have found no evidence that al-Qaida has sneaked any terrorists into the country for a strike coinciding with the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, senior officials said Saturday.
But authorities kept a high alert as investigators looked for proof of a plot possibly timed to disrupt events planned Sunday in Washington or New York.
Since late Wednesday, counterterrorism officials have chased a tip that al-Qaida may have sent three men to the U.S. on a mission to detonate a car bomb in either city. At least two of those men could be U.S. citizens, according to the tip.
No intelligence supported that tip as of Saturday, and officials continued to question the validity of the initial information.
While authorities urged people to keep a watchful eye for suspicious activity as usual, they said there was no reason the latest tip should change anyone’s weekend.




TEEN WHO LOST LEGS IN TRAIN JUMPING ACCIDENT AWAKE, JOKING


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 19:42:09 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(AP) A 17-year-old girl whose legs were severed when she tried to hop aboard a moving freight train in Colorado is in good spirits and has been joking with her siblings at a Denver hospital, police said.
Anna Beninati’s family plans to take her home soon to Sandy, Utah, so that she can begin her rehabilitation.
Beninati and three male friends were going to Fort Collins, where she was attending Colorado State University, when she tried to hop the train Monday in Longmont, about 30 miles north of Denver. Her legs were detached near her knees when she fell under the train.
Her family said in a statement Friday that she is awake at Denver Health, where family and friends have surrounded her at her bedside.




YEMENI ARMY LIBERATES SOUTHERN CITY FROM AL-QAEDA


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 19:34:21 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(REUTERS) Yemen’s army has recaptured a southern provincial capital held by Islamist militants since May, the state news agency said on Saturday, citing the provincial governor and military officials.
The army launched an offensive two months ago against the militants controlling the coastal city of Zinjibar, which lies east of a strategic shipping strait through which some 3 million barrels of oil pass daily.
A military official said earlier on Saturday the army had broken a four-month siege of a brigade based near Zinjibar by fighters said to be from al Qaeda’s Yemen-based wing.
Militants with suspected links to al Qaeda have seized swathes of territory in the southern province of Abyan, taking advantage of turmoil in a country convulsed for months by protests against President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s 33-year rule.




FLOODWATERS FROM TROPICAL STORM LEE RECEDE


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 18:38:34 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(AP) Tens of thousands of people forced from their homes in Pennsylvania were hoping to return and assess the damage Saturday as the Susquehanna River receded from some of the highest floodwaters ever seen from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.
In northeastern Pennsylvania, officials hoped to lift an evacuation order Saturday afternoon for about 70,000 residents in and around Wilkes-Barre. The level of the Susquehanna River had dropped to about 32 feet on Saturday morning and was expected to be back within its banks at about 29 feet, Luzerne County Commissioner Maryanne Petrilla said.
The Susquehanna crested Thursday at nearly 42.7 feet in Wilkes-Barre, higher than the record set during catastrophic Hurricane Agnes in 1972, and at 25.7 feet in Binghamton, N.Y. The river reached a 15-year high of 32.4 feet Friday at the Conowingo Dam in northeastern Maryland.
 
 




HERMAN CAIN SINGS ‘GOD BLESS AMERICA’ IN 9/11 COMMEMORATION VID


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 17:09:22 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(THE BLAZE) Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain released a 9/11 tribute video Friday in which he sings “God Bless America” while footage of the burning Twin Towers and other Sept. 11 images play on the screen.
CHECK OUT THE VIDEO:





GRANDMOTHER WINS LOTTERY PLAYING BIRTHDAYS OF KIDS AND GRANDKIDS


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 13:20:30 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(FOX) Audelia Ramirez, 73, won $9 million in the California SuperLotto after she picked numbers based on the birthdays of her children and grandchildren.
Audelia has six children, eight grandchildren and said she wants to celebrate by buying a new house after living in a small apartment for years.
A California Lottery spokesman said she also wants to spend some of the winnings on her children and grandchildren. 
Her winning numbers were 22, 27, 32, 31, 2 and Mega 11.
It comes as it was revealed this week Brian McCarthy, son of the millionaire Marriott hotels president Robert McCarthy, won $107million in the lottery.




‘BIGGEST LOSER’ CONTESTANT IMPROVING AFTER FALLING SEVERAL STORIES


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 12:59:26 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(CNN) Despite still being listed in critical condition, former “Biggest Loser” contestant Sam Poueu is improving in a San Francisco hospital after falling several stories from a building on Saturday.
The reality star is conscious and is being treated for a pelvic injury, torn ligaments, a punctured lung and a broken leg.
Poueu’s season 9 Loser castmate Ashley Johnston offered a progress report on her Facebook: “Sam Poueu is making great improvements everyday,” she wrote in a post. “God is answering our prayers and Sam is fighting. Please keep the prayers coming. He is still in critical condition, but is fighting like hell and is impressing the Doctors like he impressed all of us on the Biggest Loser.”
Dr. H from “Biggest Loser” says he can’t make specific comments about Sam’s current condition — but claims Sam is doing better every day.
It is unknown what caused his fall.




PARALYZED MAN TO CLIMB PIKES PEAK IN WHEELCHAIR


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 12:40:07 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(HUFFINGTON POST) On Saturday Dr. Glen House, a 42-year-old paralyzed Colorado man, will undertake a 13-mile hike up the 14,ooo-foot Pikes Peak mountain in his wheelchair.
House will be one of about 450 hikers participating in the Pikes Peak Challenge for charity, and the only participant rolling himself up in a wheelchair.
Housewas paralyzed from the waist down in a skiing accident while in college. He has enough use of his arms and hands to push the wheels of his chair, even up a steep incline like the Pikes Peak Highway. In addition to the physical demands of ascending about 7,000 feet into thin air, House will have to contend with traffic on the twisting roadway, which lacks guardrails.
The trek should take about five to six hours, said House, who’s trained by propelling himself up hills near his home in Colorado Springs. His longest trip to date has been 3.5 miles, but he’s not fazed by the immensity of the climb, because he successfully completed it several years ago in a more technologically advanced wheelchair than the model he’ll use this weekend.




BOLIVIA AIRPLANE CRASH SURVIVOR FOUND AFTER THREE DAYS IN JUNGLE


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 12:26:40 +0000
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:
(BBC) A Bolivian man who was the sole survivor of a plane crash has been found alive in the Amazon jungle three days after the plane went down.
Rescue officials said Minor Vidal, 35, was found with head injuries away from the site of Tuesday’s crash. Mr Vidal told his rescuers he escaped after being trapped in the wreckage and survived by drinking his own urine and water from a lagoon.
Eight people were killed in the crash near Trinidad, in north-east Bolivia. The Aerocon Airlines flight was travelling from Santa Cruz to Trinidad when air traffic controllers lost track of it. All nine passengers and crew were originally reported to have been killed in the crash.






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


