News and notes from Strikeforce: Barnett vs. Kharitonov press conference | Fed Up! Today | Top political news and Political blogs from the right and left. Be informed!





About
Contact
MADE IN AMERICA
RSS FEEDS
Privacy Policy






 













Blogs & Stories

Featured

From Around The Web

From The Left

From The Right



News Worthy

Side Notes

Social

Sports

Tech

Video Library










Subscribe



Follow Us 



Be Our Fan



Stumble

Share 







Ads Powered by Max Banner Ads Contributors

AP Top Headlines At 7:15 a.m. EDT
AP Top Political News At 7:28 a.m. EDT
articles
C-SPAN Video Library Blog
Media Matters for America – Limbaugh Wire
Michael Moore – This Just In
NBCSports.com: Sports
News & Politics
Open Mike
OpenSecrets Blog
POLITICO.com: 2012 LIVE Blog
Power Line
Reuters: Politics
Reuters: Top News
Right Wing News
Social Media Today – The world’s best thinkers on social media
Taegan Goddard’s Political Wire
The Daily Beast – Videos
The Daily Caller » Politics
The Ed Schultz Show – BlOn Today’s Showog
The Maddow Blog
Top Tech News
VOA News:  News  
Y! Sports Blogs  – Yahoo! Sports








News and notes from Strikeforce: Barnett vs. Kharitonov press conference

Thursday, September 08, 2011
                         Maggie Hendricks
            
                               No comments



CINCINNATI — In preparation for the semifinals of the Strikeforce heavyweight grand prix, the promotion’s top fighters held court with media at the U.S. Bank Area. Here’s what you need to know:
– The start time is at 10:30 p.m. ET because of a documentary airing on Saturday night. Called “The Love We Make,” it’s a documentary about a show that Paul McCartney put together right after September 11. Strikeforce’s bouts will start after that.
– Daniel Cormier was added to the GP after Alistair Overeem — who is now signed with the UFC — dropped out of the tourney. Cormier isn’t concerned about being a replacement adding extra pressure because he already puts pressure on himself.
“It’s not that big of a deal to me. Pressure would be only if I didn’t put high expectations on myself. I put enough pressure on myself to begin with, so being in this tournament could not add anything more.”
He also said he was surprised that Overeem, or anyone would drop out of the tournament because it was such a good opportunity.
– Mo Lawal said that he has been ready since January, but hasn’t been able to get a fight until now. Though all of the major MMA media outlets were there, Lawal was disappointed in the turnout at the press conference.
“I was hoping there would be more media. More questions. Roger and me are going to put on a good fight, but everyone’s going to miss it because they’re worried about other issues.”
– Roger Gracie is known for his ground game, as he is a highly accomplished jiu-jitsu player. But with Lawal’s world class wrestling background, Gracie may not be able to control where the bout will take place.
“It’s hard to predict. Mo Lawal is a great wrestler. We’ll just have to see and be prepared for everything. He’s a good striker but an unbelievable wrestler. You try to plan a strategy, but you have to be prepared for everything,” Gracie said.
Quoteworthy:
“It’ll be a main-event worthy fight. I know he’s going to bring a never-say-die attitude. It’ll be a good tussle. I think we’re going to finish one another. No decisions here.” — Josh Barnett, on his Grand Prix bout with Sergei Kharitonov.
“Josh said that he and Sergei were going to finish their fight. Just to put it out there, I’m fine winning the decision.” — Daniel Cormier



 Full article  

Posted in:  News Worthy, Sports
                          Tags: car free insurance online quote, mlb, nfl, nhl, sports




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Connect with FacebookName *
Email *
Website
 Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  







Notify me of followup comments via e-mail

 












Language


JavaScript is required to use this website translator, site translator, automatic translation, free translation. Buy oil paintings on ArtMaestro.Featured Video








The Sarah Palin Paul Revere MomentSponsors 










Recent Posts
Comments
Tags




Obama adviser: GOP candidates offer no job ideas Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By AP Top Political News At 7:28 a.m. EDT                                         

Bachmann: Gov. Perry engaged in ‘crony capitalism’ Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By AP Top Political News At 7:28 a.m. EDT                                         

Diabetes "massive challenge" as cases hit 366 million Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By Reuters: Top News                                         

Merkel warns on Greece, Obama voices U.S. alarm Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By Reuters: Top News                                         

Taliban attack Afghan capital’s embassy district Tuesday, September 13, 2011 By Reuters: Top News                                         







Home Party Consultant: Great game to watch 
                                                »  



Billy Mays: http://www.infowars.com/paul-slams-perry-as-al-gor 
                                                »  



Mathew: Check  
                                                »  



Bill Slover ✔: HUH? 
                                                »  



Bill Slover ✔: Spot on Robin!

What we really need is for the U 
                                                »  




Around the web
Auto Insurance
Blog
blogs
car free insurance online quote
Daily
Endowment Selling
Facebook
In
Insurance Auto
left
mlb
News
nfl
nhl
right
Secured Loan Calculator
Social
sports
Twitter



Quick Links 

Members of Congress
Lobbying


Congressional Races
527 Committees


Get Local
Pacs


Donor Lookup
Personal Finances


Interest Groups
Earmarks



 RECENT US KEYVOTESAmendments to US Patent Law - Bill Passed - Senate Thursday, September 8, 2011Budget Control Act of 2011 - Concurrence Vote Passed - Senate Tuesday, August 2, 2011Budget Control Act of 2011 - Bill Passed - House Monday, August 1, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Reid Bill) - Cloture Not Invoked - Senate Sunday, July 31, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Boehner Bill) - Bill Tabled - Senate Friday, July 29, 2011Increasing the Debt Ceiling (Boehner Bill) - Bill Passed - House Friday, July 29, 2011






             © 2011  Fed Up! Today | Top political news and Political blogs from the right and left. Be informed!. All Rights Reserved. 
        



Powered by WordPress | Designed by: seo services | Thanks to credit repair, web design st louis and std testing










 





FEDUPdate: Al Qaeda releases video supporting Arab Spring http://t.co/H0AfnsG57 minutes ago











Tweet







