Do you know your spouse's salary? - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to SchoolFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty


Trending Now»Weight WatchersJessica SimpsonFamily budgetsAli LohanInfidelity



















Do you know your spouse's salary?By Rebecca Eckler | Chatelaine – Wed, 7 Sep, 2011 12:00 AM EDT






A friend recently told me a story about one of her colleagues whose partner refuses to tell her how much money he makes. They've been together for ten years, and living together for three of those. It was only recently that she wanted to know and so she asked. And he (who works at an investment firm) refused to answer.

Naturally, upon hearing this story, I wondered why he wouldn't share, especially after she asked, considering they have been together so long. Plus, he knows her salary. That said, I've never really known my boyfriend's (or ex-boyfriend's) salaries and I don't think I've ever asked. But I wonder how I would feel if I did ask, and they refused to tell me. My friend's colleague and her partner split all the bills equally, which may or may not be fair if he is making a lot more than her. What if one day he wants to move into a bigger place and she can't afford it but he can? They'll have to talk about it then, right? 

I asked a number of women what they had to say on the subject. I also spoke to a former editor of MoneySense for thoughts and tips on the matter.


What other women think


There are lots of reasons why people might want to keep their income to themselves, and although that might come across as a negative message about what that means for your relationship, you have to remember that money and love don't necessarily go together," says one woman.

"If you've been together for ten years, I don't see why he shouldn't share his earnings. At that point you've probably been through a lot together," another woman thought.

"If you live separately, and don't share bills or expenses, I suppose it's really not your business to know. However, if you're living together and are financially involved in one way or another, it would be helpful to know/be in the loop with what his income is," says another woman.

"If you're someone who likes to spend, he may keep his money to himself because he doesn't want to support that, or make you think that he has the money to do so. He might be worried you'll suck him dry and in turn won't want you to know," says another. Can you be any more blunt?

"Maybe he was taught or raised that you don't discuss money. That you don't ask other people what they make, and if you're ever asked you just keep it private," one friend suggests.

"If he doesn't have a high-paying job, perhaps he's embarrassed to tell you. No matter how much you tell him you love him for who he is and not for his money, it might still be a shot to his ego to divulge that kind of information," says a friend.


What does the money expert think?


A former editor of MoneySense first suggests that you decide how important it is to you to know what your partner makes, and how it changes your life to have that information - if it does at all. "Money is the number-one issue that people fight over in marriage. But if you are just dating, you may find out and wonder if it's too high for you? What if it's too low? But if you're married, and plan to buy a house or start a family, money matters. You need to have a discussion whether you can afford that or you will most likely end up in debt." 

Her tips are as follows:

1. Figure out if knowing your spouses salary is important to you. If so, figure out why - do you wonder about sharing expenses, saving for a house, etc. - and if it will change your life at all to have the information.

2. Don't have any expectations. If you learn your spouse's salary, you can't reply with "Well, that's too low" or "Great! That's high." There is no right or wrong number in a good relationship, she says.

3. If you ask for his salary, be prepared that you may not get the information. If your spouse does say no to your request, is that a deal breaker for your relationship? "If for some reason the love of your life really does not want you to know, you'll have to carry on in the relationship and let it go."

4. If he flat-out refuses to let you in on his earnings, after so many years together, he may not open up to other issues either, she says.

5. If you know why you want to know - because you are wondering if he/she can help build a family, or afford child care, or buy a bigger house - she suggests that you ask those questions, as opposed to asking for his specific salary. She suggests that men may not like talking about their salaries, so talk around it: "Honey, we need a new car soon. Will be both be able to afford one?" Never be pushy!

Do you know your spouse's salary? Do you think it's important to know?


Follow me @rebeccaeckler and www.howtoraiseaboyfriend.com


 

More stories from Chatelaine


How do you deal wtih peer pressure as an adult?


How to stop thinking about work and get some sleep


How to forgive (even if you can't forget)


How to avoid cancelling your plans without notice


How to work out sleeping arrangements when you're dating and have a child



Connect with Chatelaine:


Find us on Facebook!


Follow us on Twitter


Subscribe to our newsletters!


Become a part of the Chatelaine community!









All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        30 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













Helen
2 minutes ago

I seriously cannot beleive the argument supporting the live-in boyfriend gets to support his refusal to tell his income! Seriously women in 2011 should gently support a man's ego by asking (begging) to know if they can afford a car. What if the man cannot afford it and still says yes. Should women truly let such an important issue rest in the dark without truly knowing the state of their shared economy. 
I know that being rased in Scandinavia sets the standard for equal rights high - but this seems to set them extremly low! I feel sorry for women that should have to take such extreme care in maintaing the man's ego that they have to eliminated their own sence of security in knowledge to do so!




 








L
33 minutes ago

If you are married or live in a common-law relationship, don't you then combine both your incomes to complete your joint, yearly income tax returns? Don't you both then have to sign the form? How could one person refuse to tell the other what they earned when it's on the form?

But if you're not married or common-law, then I guess whether people share this information together is a sign of the trust in the relationship. If a man wanted to know what I earned just to see if it was enough to justify going further in our relationship, then forget it. I'd never ask a man I was just dating what he earned either. If it's love, then it's love for rich or for poor.




 








Michael
3 hours ago

Women love smart and generous guys. So, let them know how much you make as well as how hard it is to make money. Be smart enough to know if she's a gold digger, dump her immediately if she is (no second thought). Be generous that you share 70% of overall monthly expense. So letting your woman know how much you make is a good thing, trust is everything for a good relationship. No trust, no love and vice-versa! This is somehow a huge topic, not easy to make all sense in several paragraphs...:-), life is interesting!




 








Cassandra
6 hours ago

I see all the bitter men have congregated to this forum.  You know the type.  Their the
whiners and moaners who think all women are evil and can't understand why they 
can't meet a nice woman.  Probably because your bitter, boring specimens and what
woman could stand spending any time with you, much less shack up with you.
Please bitter men, do women a favour and aboid them at all costs.  Nobody needs
your lousy attitudes and crappy outlook on life.




 








Firas Faham
6 hours ago

I know of women who seek man for bigger salary and will always leave present spouse and go to another, once she finds higher salary man she will probably leave again. Spouse selection as I see should be based on contentment and not on money, as long as decent income is there. It is so hard to find a spouse whom you can trust in money matters. Let not religion, spouse background, look, words, and family background fool you in trusting your potential spouse.




 








Robyn
7 hours ago

Once we moved in together and knew that we would marry we made our accounts joint. No secrets. Thats the was it is supposed to be. All the money in one account, all the money out of the same account, each with equal access to it. Once you say I do and exchange rings, its all equal anyway, so whats the big deal?




 








♥Bettsy♥
8 hours ago

Sounds like true love.




 








Bork
8 hours ago

Newfie women are nosy bitches that  need to know everything and then go gossip on it.




 








chrststephen
8 hours ago

That would make me incredibly angry, I would feel that he doesn't trust me. I would probably leave him.




 








SheriG
8 hours ago

How can you not know?  When you file your income taxes, you have to put your spouse's net income on your T1.




 








Richard
8 hours ago

I'm a teacher - so any woman who marries me sure as hell isn't marrying me for my money :-)  As for dating a woman who makes more money than me - no problem - it would be a necessity if we want to buy a house that doesn't have wheels.




 








Vannasan
8 hours ago

just to add another point. Most jobs have a ballpark earning amount - teachers, social workers, engineers, doctors, skilled trades, whatever. they all have a salary range and you could give or take a few thousand based on their degree level and how many years they've been working. So it really isn't that hard to guess what the next person makes or rsearch it if it matters that much to you. 
Jobs that work on commission or side investments are a different story but even then there's an average




 








Jeff
9 hours ago

It's a GREAT time to BUY LOW! 

Keep on watching the rich get even more of my money? 

I don't think so. I have paid enough in taxes for a lifetime. 　 

I know how to get some back. 　 

G○○gle the term ' CASH' TEACHER OPTIONS ' and click the first site...they are that good. Go right to the OPTIONS TRADING page to see what the rich do not want you to know. 　 

Check it and you will learn what many are hiding. Well worth the read.




 








SONNY
10 hours ago

Of course one should know one's spouse's salary.  When a couple weds they now become as one.




 








George
10 hours ago

How do you plan your life together withouth knowing each other's salary? Makes  no sense to me.  If you are going to buy a house together or save for your kid's college then you need to know.   And there no point being a stickler to 50/50, you need to work as a team and be on the same page.




 








Ludo
10 hours ago

My husband has always made a bit more than twice as much as me.  I've always known this, and it has never been a big deal.  I honestly didn't realize that there are "rules" about sharing information---we just fell in love and were honest from the beginning....12 years together and still going strong.




 








Ariadne
10 hours ago

Years ago, I worked for a steel company where the men on the line refused to have direct deposit of their paychecks. The reason?  If it was automatically deposited, they'd have to tell their wives how much they made.  So they would instead cash their checks and take a portion in cash so she'd never know.

But as for this situation, I wouldn't be living with a guy that I wasn't hoping to marry someday and I would never marry a man without knowing if he could financially contribute to the marriage.  He should fess up if he wants to keep her.  She isn't just anyone, she's his partner.  If he can't trust her, then he's living with the wrong girl.  And if he can't trust her with his financial information, what else is he keeping from her?




 








Echoz
11 hours ago

im in a relationship and currently engaged, we may get married next year but i always lie about my salary, if its 50 i say its 40. is that wrong?




 








L
11 hours ago

They always want to know how long your shlong is.




 








watdmt
12 hours ago

Mrs. watdmt  cashed all Mr. watdmt's checks for 31 years .When he retired,we went to the bank together,he invested some of his retirement funds and he gave me some as well to invest. The funny part, while I was deciding what to do with the money he gave me,he went up to another teller to deposit his regular pay check and they started to question him, and asked for ID. Then the teller waiting on me realized what was happening and called to the other person,cash his check ,he is Mrs. watdmt's husband. So to us money is no big deal--you work for it,pay the bills and invest a bit.Help your family when you can. What is the good of money when you are not around to spend it?To much  fuss about nothing and I think if two people are married or share expences should know how much is in the pot,why hide it be happy you have enough!








   More
                        



 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …
Celebrities who were bullied as kids

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesThreesomes And GirlfriendsAskmen - 7 hours agoBargain Saturday: 6 Ways to Fake a HeadboardHGTV - 21 hours agoEmpathy In RelationshipsAskmen - Sat, 10 Sep, 2011 12:00 AM EDTShame plates: Is this fat-shaming dinnerware funny or troubling?Shine - Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 2:21 PM EDTToast to a long life! One drink a day is good for womenShine - Fri, 9 Sep, 2011 2:15 PM EDT

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play VideoStudents Who Shared 9/11 With  …
Play Video9/11 Babies: 10 Years Later
Play VideoBoosting Your Immune System
Play Video'Intervention Canada' tackles impacts …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 40prevnext
6.7-magnitude quake hits Vancouver Island
Will and Kate's favourite Canadian spot
Ponytail costs athlete a championship
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
Five photos you should not post online















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending NowWeight WatchersJessica SimpsonFamily budgetsAli LohanInfidelity














                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















