
	Texas Forest Service











BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES - PUBLICATIONS









[ Print | 

 ]



BMP Guidelines 



Texas Forestry Best Management Practices 
 
Handbook of practices and guidelines for protecting water quality during forestry operations (revised August 2010)
 
 BMP HandbookNewsletters 



Texas Water Source, September, 2011
 
 A targeted quarterly newsletter educating landowners on water related programs and issues.                     Newsletter Archive 
 
 Brochures 



Cleaner Water Naturally
 
General overview of best management practices for protecting water quality
 
          

Forestry Best Management Practices for Water Quality
 
 General overview on Texas BMPs for forestry. Excellent resource for those who are unfamiliar with BMPs and nonpoint source pollution. 
 


Streamside Management Zones
 
General overview of the benefits of Streamside Management Zones to protect water quality
 


Forestry, Wetlands and Water Quality  
 
  General overview of forested wetlands, their importance, and necessary guidelines for protecting during forestry operations. 
 


Texas Reforestation and Conservation Act of 1999
 
Information on a reduced special appraisal for qualified forest zones and regenerated timberland to encourage reforestation and preservation of non-timber forest values.
 
 BMP Fact Sheets 



BMP Guidelines Overview 
         
Explains what BMPs are and how they can be used to protect the water resources on your property.            
 
 

Forest Roads  
 
Highlights important aspects of planning and constructing forest roads to protect water quality. 
 
 

Reasonable BMP Expectations 
 
 For landowners unfamiliar with forestry, this publicaiton explains what you should reasonably expect from a logging operation. 
 
 

BMPs for Reforestation and Site Preparation
 
Highlights important considerations for protecting water quality during planting and site prep operations.
 
 

Stream Crossings  
 
 Stream crossings have the highest potential to impact water quality. This publiatin highlights some important considerations when planning and installing stream crossings.
 
    Reports 



Voluntary Implementation with Forestry Best Management Practices in East Texas   
 
Results of the Texas Forest Service's 7th round of BMP monitoring completed in 2008   
 
 

Evaluating the Effectiveness of Texas Forestry Best Management Practices,    
 
Results from the Texas Silvicultural BMP Effectiveness Monitoring Project 2003-2007   
 
 

Survey of Texas Loggers, 2002-03
 
  White paper:  Survey of Texas loggers that identified services loggers provide, means of information exchange, and loggers' assessment of TFS 
 
 

 BMP Product and Vendor Guide 
 
 Useful guide containing helpful information for obtaining materials for road and stream crossing construction. 
 
 Miscellaneous     



Silviculture/Wetlands Regulatory Glossary  
 
This glossary was originally developed by the Forest BMP Subcommittee under the leadership of the Texas Forest service and Texas Forestry Association in 1996. 
 
                                                                        








