
	Texas Forest Service











FINAL DEADLINE APPROACHING FOR FEDERAL TIMBER RESTORATION ASSISTANCE









[ Print | 

 ]



Dec. 4, 2007 - COLLEGE STATION, Texas -The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Emergency Forestry Conservation Reserve Program (EFCRP) will be accepting applications for federal assistance to hurricane-damaged land tracts until December 31, 2007. This is the final opportunity for landowners to apply for assistance from the EFCRP.
This is a second-chance sign-up period for landowners who may not have qualified in the first application period and for those landowners who have not yet applied to the program.
Landowners who were not eligible for federal aid in the first sign-up period may now qualify for assistance due to changes in qualifications criteria.
According to Texas Forest Service District Forester Rich Dottellis, 200 applications representing 26,000 acres in an eight-county area were submitted during the first sign-up period. Of those, approximately 70 were admitted into the program.
Under the new guidelines, a landowner submits only the acreage of land that was actually damaged in the storm for consideration into the program, thus presenting a very high percentage of damaged acreage and raising the probability of acceptance into the program.
If you are an individual, non-industrial private landowner, you may be eligible to apply if you:

suffered a loss of at least 35 percent of the value of your timberland
have not received or will not receive funding from any other federal program that covers the same expenses on an offered acre of land.

Contact your local Farm Service Agency (FSA) to sign up for the program. Local FSA offices will accept land enrollment applications through December 31, 2007. But due to the extensive assessment and enrollment process that agencies must perform in order to complete the landowner's application, it is recommended that all applications be submitted by Dec. 22.
Eligible Texas counties include Angelina, Brazoria, Chambers, Cherokee, Fort Bend, Galveston, Gregg, Hardin, Harris, Harrison, Houston, Jasper, Jefferson, Liberty, Marion, Montgomery, Nacogdoches, Newton, Orange, Panola, Polk, Rusk, Sabine, San Augustine, San Jacinto, Shelby, Trinity, Tyler and Walker.
Texas Forest Service personnel provide technical assistance to landowners in damage assessment, as well as mitigation and recovery practices. Informational tract surveys completed by Texas Forest Service are used by the FSA to rank the requests according to established criteria. If the landowner's evaluation is accepted, Texas Forest Service foresters will work with the landowner to develop a conservation plan.
The EFCRP participants remain under contract for 10 years and are eligible to receive pre-determined annual rental payments over the contract period or a one-time, discounted lump sum payment. In addition, forest landowners may also qualify for 50 percent cost-share assistance to offset reforestation and/or rehabilitation expenses.
More information about the EFCRP and a list of FSA offices in the eligible counties can be found on the Farm Service Agency web site.









