
	Texas Forest Service











STATE FORESTER HULL ANNOUNCES RETIREMENT









[ Print | 

 ]



Jan. 4, 2008 -- COLLEGE STATION, Texas—James B. Hull, Texas state forester and director of the Texas Forest Service, an agency of The Texas A&M University System, announced his retirement today, effective June 1, 2008.
Hull’s departure will mark the end of his 12-year tenure as only the seventh state forester named by the A&M System Board of Regents since the agency’s creation by the 34th Texas Legislature in 1915.
Under Hull’s leadership, Texas Forest Service has gained national prominence in wildfire protection and prevention. Early successes in the Texas Wildfire Prevention Plan, the model for other state and federal organizations, resulted in the agency being awarded the prestigious Gold Smokey Award in 2003.
Texas Forest Service is now established as a state and national leader in all risk incident management as evidenced by its lead role in the Space Shuttle Columbia recovery effort and several hurricane recovery events. This expertise is the result of its continuous effective use in wildfire suppression activities.
Under Hull’s direction and encouragement, and for the first time in the history of the agency, forest inventory and analysis is a statewide effort. His vision for the agency—to provide the most accurate, credible and timely data and analysis—is the driving force in completing a survey project of this magnitude.
Hull’s retirement also signals the conclusion of his 42 years of continuous employment with Texas Forest Service. He held forester appointments in Kirbyville, Woodville and Linden until 1975, when he was named agency assistant director and relocated to the agency’s headquarters in College Station. In 1981, he was named agency associate director.
A forestry graduate of Stephen F. Austin State University in Nacogdoches, Texas, Hull has held numerous regional and national leadership positions where he served in such roles as co-chair of the National Blue Ribbon Commission on Aerial Firefighting; president of the National Association of State Foresters; and most recently, co-founder of the USDA Forest Service’s State & Private Forestry Redesign project. He was elected as a Fellow in the Society of American Foresters in 1988.
Texas Forest Service Director Biography








