
	Texas Forest Service











ELEMENTARY STUDENTS TO EXPLORE THE FOREST IN HOUSTON’S BACKYARD









[ Print | 

 ]



CONROE, Texas – Will we get to see polar bears in the forest?
This was one of the questions asked by a student upon arriving at W. Goodrich Jones State Forest last year for Exploring Houston’s Backyard, a day-long outdoor education program for nearly 1000 fifth-graders in the Houston Independent School District.
The annual program, hosted by the Texas Forest Service (TFS) and sponsored by Devon Energy, takes students out of the classroom and into the forest for a day, and will be held again this year May 5-9.  While they will not see any polar bears, the inner-city students will discover the wonders of nature up-close as they learn about forest animals, insects, and plants.
   
“For many of the students, this will be their first experience with wildlife,” said John Warner, urban district forester for Texas Forest Service.  “Part of their forest activities include three hands-on stations— Wet and Wild, Forest Friends, and Trees Telling Their Secrets— where they examine water organisms under a microscope, touch a real snake, and see how trees are used to make such products as football helmets and chewing gum.” 
Tom Boggus, TFS associate director, says that Exploring Houston’s Backyard is part of Texas Forest Service’s environmental education program, which introduces students to the wonders of the forest and creates a new awareness for a side of nature they may have never seen before. 
“By equipping our young citizens with the tools and inspiration to care for the natural world around them, we are helping conserve our valuable forests and trees for future generations,” said Boggus. 
More than 12,000 Houston inner-city fifth-graders have participated in the annual program since 1995. 
For additional information about Exploring Houston’s Backyard, contact John Warner at (936)546-3169. 
Texas Forest Service is a member of the Texas A&M University System and is recognized as the leader in defining forestry of the future for Texas and the nation through its applied programs in forest and tree development; wildfire prevention, mitigation and protection; urban and community forestry and a host of other innovative forest sustainability programs.  For more information, go to http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu.








