
	Texas Forest Service











LUFKIN FIRE ACADEMY DRAWS FIREFIGHTERS FROM ACROSS U.S









[ Print | 

 ]



May 14, 2008 -- LUFKIN, Texas -- Firefighters from across the country have converged on the Angelina College campus for the 11th Annual East Texas Interagency Wildfire and Incident Management Academy, which runs from May 13-23. Firefighters attending the academy could find that they will quickly put their training to use. Indeed, many firefighters and equipment remain mobilized across the western portion of the state where they are still being called upon to respond to wildfires occurring in the tinder dry conditions.
Firefighters will fill 307 training slots at the academy which is offering 20 wildfire training courses running from eight hours to 40 hours in length. Courses range from entry-level basic firefighting skills to advanced leadership and business management techniques and skills.
Academy participants come from a wide variety of backgrounds. While most students are employed by state and natural resource management agencies, others are paid and volunteer firefighters or individuals affiliated with specialized firefighting teams.
Individuals participating in the academy are preparing themselves to be better prepared to assist with any type of emergency response – from fires to hurricanes to acts of terrorism, says Texas Forest Service’s David Abernathy, incident commander for the academy. Though some courses offered at the academy focus on specific aspects of wildland firefighting, other courses teach participants how personnel from a wide variety of agencies and organizations can efficiently and effectively work together on emergency responses.
"Academy courses teach participants how to participate as part of an incident response team under the Incident Command System (ICS)," stated Abernathy. "Besides learning through coursework, students also get to see the application of ICS principles and organization put in practice, because the academy is managed as an incident under the leadership of an ICS team.
"Agencies and organizations across the country saw how well the Incident Command System worked even in non-fire emergencies such as efforts of the Columbia shuttle recovery here in Texas," said Abernathy. "ICS teams also helped manage the aftermath of the World Trade Center destruction and have since been used on numerous hurricane responses, including Hurricanes Katrina and Rita."
- # # # -
Contact: 
Jan Amen – Lufkin
Academy Information Officer
936-546-1004 cell
 
Relevant websites:
http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu 
http://tamu.edu/ticc








