
	Texas Forest Service











CONNECTING KIDS TO NATURE: GETTING OUT IS IN!









[ Print | 

 ]



Outside playtime for kids is fast becoming a thing of the past. With the rise of popularity in video and computer games, it’s no secret that too many children are missing out on the wonders of the outdoors. A recent study found that children spend approximately 45 hours per week looking at a television or computer screen. These alarming facts give rise to concerns on the future of natural resource conservation efforts, as well as the mental and physical health of children.
In his book Last Child in the Woods, Richard Louv argues that a “nature-deficient disorder” has been created among children- a disconnection from the land. This disconnection has lead to problems such as increased rates of childhood obesity and juvenile diabetes, increases in Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder, depression, a decrease in creativity and curiosity, and a loss of respect for nature and its place in the community.
Additionally, Louv highlights a loss of “free play” for children, due to greater pressure to excel in structured activities, restrictions on where they may play, loss of natural areas due to development, and parent’s fears have “scared children straight out of the woods,” and into the living room.
Texas Forest Service (TFS) recognizes the need to reconnect our children to the land. This is the basis of a new TFS workshop entitled Nature Realized: Connecting Your Children to the Land. The workshop is coordinated by Angie Soldinger, conservation education coordinator for Texas Forest Service, and partnered with the Texas Parks and Wildlife program “Texas Outdoor Family.” It is designed for parents and grandparents of children under the age of 18 and provides education about benefits of getting their children out of the house and into the outdoors.
“If we can reach the influential adults in a child’s life, we can build a conservation ethic in today’s children and sustain their excitement for the outdoors," said Soldinger.
The next Nature Realized: Connecting Your Children to the Land workshop is scheduled for July 29, Aug. 5 and Aug. 12 at Caddo Lake State Park. For details and registration information, contact Angie Soldinger asoldinger@tfs.tamu.edu at 979-458-6649.
 
 



Email to a friend |

 Save This Page |

 Digg This

| Stumble It!




 








