
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS COMPETES FOR RESOURCES IN FIGHTING WILDFIRES









[ Print | 

 ]



August 12, 2008--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Texas accounts for less than 10% of the acreage of the United States - yet, in 2008, wildfires in Texas have consumed 37% of the total national acreage lost to fire. In the southern region of the United States, Texas has accounted for 81% of the acres burned. Because of its large size and vast variations in climate, Texas faces considerable challenges in the prevention and containment of wildfires. The summer of 2008 has seen one of the most demanding fire seasons to date for Texas, according to Cynthia Foster, emergency response coordinator for Texas Forest Service. The fire situations in other states affect Texas as well. The National Multi-Agency Coordination Group is responsible for allocating resources throughout the country for firefighting. But those resources only stretch so far, and with the state of California also facing a prolonged fire season, Texas has been in competition for these resources.According to Foster, the situation at the moment is under control. Fires in the western part of the United States have been reduced and Texas has been able to receive needed resources. Over 2,300 personnel nationwide have been mobilized to Texas this summer to help fight wildfires. Additionally, Texas currently has four large helicopters that can individually drop 1000 gallons of water and one large air tanker that has been tremendously helpful in containing wildfires. But, Foster notes that it would be extremely difficult to obtain a second air tanker if needed.“We are just one lightening storm in California away from having heavy competition for resources again,” said Foster. “In 2008, Texas Forest Service has dropped over 9.3 million gallons of water and flame retardant so far.”According to TFS Predictive Services, wildfires will continue to occur throughout the state for the next several weeks. 



 
|Email to a friend 








