
	Texas Forest Service











WET WEATHER PATTERN BRINGS END TO WILDFIRE SEASON









[ Print | 

 ]



August 21, 2008--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Current rains across Texas bring relief to more than 200 days of the Lone Star State’s summer wildfire season. Due to recent and ongoing significant rainfall, wildfire danger statewide has declined. Supplemental firefighting resources maintained in Texas over the past 210 days are no longer needed and have begun demobilizing. Texas Forest Service will return to normal staffing levels over the next several days.The signal of the decline of the summer wildfire season adheres to a historically-normal weather pattern change. Traditionally, the peak of wildfire season occurs between Aug. 23 and Aug. 25 and then scales down after that. “We are transitioning from a hot and dry climate to a wet weather pattern, said Tom Spencer, predictive services coordinator for Texas Forest Service. “The weather pattern change brings about shorter days, shorter burning periods and also results in rainfall from any small disturbance in the atmosphere.”There are still small, isolated pockets of drought in areas such as Austin and Uvalde, but according to Mark Stanford, chief of fire operations for Texas Forest Service, the state has received enough precipitation to promote a “green-up” of live vegetation. Texas Forest Service will continue to monitor and suppress wildfires from the command post in Granbury, the emergency operations center in College Station, and through fire coordinators across the state, but is scaling down and demobilizing all additional resources.The incident management team in Granbury reports that all aircraft and equipment will be in route home within the next week; most of which come to Texas from other southern states.“We enjoy working with the Texas team. They are a professional and hardworking group,” said Bob Butler, air operations branch director and retired federal fire manager from Las Vegas, Nevada. “The fire business all over the country is the same: teamwork. There are no egos involved. It is just a lot of hard-working people who know the best way to get the job done is to work as a team. That is why I keep coming back.”The unique challenges of the Texas climate and terrain stress the need for additional resources in carrying out fire duty during a heavy wildfire season.In 2008, Texas wildfires have consumed 37% of the total national acreage lost to fire. In the southern region of the United States, Texas has accounted for 81% of the acres burned. Securing out-of-state and federal resources is a critical element in the success of fighting these wildfires.“We have been grateful for the help,” said Cynthia Foster, emergency response coordinator for Texas Forest Service, “now it is time to send them all home.”



 
|Email to a friend 








