
	Texas Forest Service











FIRE SAFETY NEEDED--INDOORS AND OUT









[ Print | 

 ]



October 6, 2008—COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Every day somewhere in our state or nation, fires claim lives, destroy homes and reduce valuable natural resources to smoldering ashes.
This year’s National Fire Prevention Week (October 5-11) marks another coordinated effort by metropolitan, volunteer and wildland firefighters to focus our attention on the importance of fire prevention in the home, on the job and outdoors.
Though the theme for the national observance is “It’s Fire Prevention Week, Prevent Home Fires,” wildfire prevention also plays a key role in Texas in preventing the loss of homes and other improved property, as well as natural resources. Bruce Woods, head of the mitigation and prevention department of the Texas Forest Service stated the importance of practicing fire safety outdoors as well.
“Practicing fire safety indoors and out can prevent most structural and wildland fires from occurring and sparing individuals and communities from damage and loss.”
Some safety tips that can reduce the likelihood of home fire damage or losses:

Avoid overloading extension cords or electrical outlets. Replace damaged electrical cords and use extension cords for temporary wiring only.
Never leave food cooking on the stove unattended.
Store flammable liquids in outbuildings away from gas water heaters and other ignition sources.
Make sure that you have smoke detectors installed, replace batteries with each time change and regularly check to make sure that detectors are working.
Keep flammable materials away from ignition sources, such as space heaters or candles.

Some outdoor fire safety tips:

Establish wide control lines around burn receptacles and brush piles to be burned to help keep possible flying embers from reaching flammable vegetation.
Dispose of smoking materials in vehicle ash trays to help prevent roadside wildfires.
Crushing smokes and matches in bare soil to help prevent fires caused by outdoor users.
Avoid driving or parking in tall, dry grass.
Build campfires in open, level spots away from trees and overhanging branches. Keep fires small and extinguish them cold to the touch before leaving.




 
|Email to a friend











