
	Texas Forest Service











PERSONNEL MEETING BRINGS UNITY, NETWORKING AND RECOGNITIONS









[ Print | 

 ]



November 18, 2008--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Texas Forest Service closed down for business all across the state one day last week. With the exception of essential emergency personnel stationed in high wildfire-risk areas of the state, more than 360 participants from across Texas, and as far away as El Paso, attended the annual TFS personnel meeting in Crockett, Texas, Tuesday. The meeting gave staff a time to reflect on the past year’s accomplishments and award employees with tenure, safety and Director’s awards. The meeting also afforded employees the opportunity to network with counterparts throughout the state.In addition to individual awards, the Texas Forest Service UWI (Urban Wildland Interface) team received a Firewise Leadership Award recognizing their outstanding efforts in promoting a cooperative approach to reducing the loss of lives, property, and resources in the wildland/urban interface. “We have worked hard for six years in Firewise,” said P. J. Pearson, urban wildland interface specialist with Texas Forest Service. “It is quite an honor to be recognized by our peers across the United States for our efforts.”Individual employees were recognized with TFS Director’s awards. These recognitions were determined by a peer and supervisory nomination process and then evaluated by committee and decided upon by the standing interim director of the agency. Director’s Awards: Field Technician - Brad Moore, Resource Specialist III, Forest Resource Protection, of Gilmer, Texas; Technical Forestry - Brad Barber, Manager, Environmental Services & Technology, College Station, Texas; Support Staff – Office - Becky Hopkins, Office Associate II, Forest Resource Development & Sustainable Forestry, San Augustine, Texas; Support Staff – Field - Karen Ridenour, GIS Specialist II, Forest Resource Protection, Bastrop, Texas; Support Staff – Professional - Kristen Suehs, Payroll Services Coordinator II, Payroll & Support Services, College Station, Texas; Team Effort- Type III AHIMT Training Program Team, Members: Paul Hannemann, Incident Response Department Head, Forest Resource Protection, College Station, Texas, Bob Koenig, Fire Training Coordinator, Forest Resource Protection, Nacogdoches, Texas, Catherine Roggenbuck, Office Associate I, Forest Resource Protection, College Station, Texas, Bruce Woods, Mitigation & Prevention Department Head, Forest Resource Protection, College Station, Texas;D. A. "Andy" Anderson Information & Education Award - Wes Moorehead, District Forester II, Forest Resource Development and Sustainable Forestry, Marshall, Texas.In addition to these recognitions, employees received tenure awards. Monica Jadlowski and Joe Pase were both recognized for 35 years of service to Texas Forest Service. 



 
|Email to a friend








