
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE UWI TEAM RECOGNIZED NATIONALLY FOR EFFORTS TO REDUCE WILDFIRE RISK









[ Print | 

 ]



November 24, 2008--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--The Texas Forest Service UWI (Urban Wildland Interface) team received a Firewise Leadership Award recognizing their outstanding efforts in promoting a cooperative approach to reducing the loss of lives, property, and resources in the wildland/urban interface. The National Wildfire Coordinating Group’s (NWCG) Wildland/Urban Interface Fire Working Team announced the winners of the Firewise Leadership Awards at the National Wildland/Urban Interface Fire Education Conference, "Backyards and Beyond," in Tampa.The Firewise Leadership Awards are designed to honor individuals and organizations conducting wildland fire mitigation activities in residential developments in the wildland/urban interface. Winners were selected based on their efforts on the local, state, and regional level. The Texas Forest Service UWI team has been recognized for their efforts to make the communities of Texas, large and small, aware of the dangers of wildfires.The Texas UWI team included Jan Amen, Robbie Curles, Jan Fulkerson, Rich Gray, Mahlon Hammetter, Mary Kay Hicks, Justice Jones, Mary Leathers, Jeff Lester, Lexi Maxwell, Lee McNeely, P. J. Pearson, Karen Ridenour, Karen Stanford and Sandra Taylor.“We have worked hard for six years in Firewise,” said P. J. Pearson, urban wildland interface specialist with Texas Forest Service. “It is quite an honor to be recognized by our peers across the United States for our efforts.”Chief Will May, chair of the NWCG’s Wildland/Urban Interface Fire Working Team, said, “Leadership Award winners serve as a perfect example of how a little initiative can go a long way. Firewise exists today with the help of this individual and group collaboration.”In addition to recognizing the winners, the Firewise Leadership Awards program helps program administrators capture success stories and share best practices across the country, between all types of interests – public, private, and tribal. This year, 20 individuals and organizations from across the country were nominated for their outstanding efforts. “This year’s winners run the gamut,” said Chief May. “From state officials to small non-profits, all of our winners posses the passion to help spread the message of the Firewise mission.”Communities and residents interested in learning more about the Firewise Communities program may visit www.firewise.org, or contact Texas Forest Service at www.txforestservice.tamu.edu.The national Firewise Communities program is an interagency program designed to encourage local solutions for wildfire safety by involving homeowners, community leaders, planners, developers, firefighters, and others in the effort to protect people and property from the risk of wildfire. The Firewise Communities program is sponsored by the National Wildfire Coordinating Group’s Wildland/Urban Interface Working Team, a consortium of wildland fire agencies that includes the USDA Forest Service, the Department of the Interior, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the National Emergency Management Association, the US Fire Administration, the National Association of State Fire Marshals, the National Fire Protection Association, and state forestry organizations. For more information, visit www.firewise.org.Texas Forest Service was created in 1915 by the 34th Legislature as an integral part of The Texas A&M University System. It is mandated by law to “assume direction of all forest interests and all matters pertaining to forestry within the jurisdiction of the state. 



 
|Email to a friend








