
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE URGES HOMEOWNERS TO TAKE PRECAUTIONS









[ Print | 

 ]



March 4, 2009--BASTROP COUNTY, Texas -- With a dangerous wildfire bearing down on her Bastrop County neighborhood, Dotty Taylor grabbed little more than a change of clothes and her dog Munch before fleeing her home of nearly 20 years.The 74-year-old woman was scared. She didn’t know what was going to happen. The only thing she could think to do was pray.It’s since been four days and the massive wildfire sparked Saturday by a downed power line still is burning in Bastrop County. Nearly 1,500 acres have been scorched and 12 businesses and 28 homes have been lost.But Taylor’s home is not included among the tally.“It looks like the Lord just put a rain coat over my place,” Taylor said as she pointed to a couple of singed fence posts as her most significant damage.Describing herself as an “old country girl,” Taylor said she always has feared wildfires. So she does what she can to protect herself, keeping her yard mowed, the leaves and pine needles raked and the roof and gutters clear.Sadly, not everyone followed her lead. Neighboring homes — many surrounded by unmanaged underbrush — didn’t fare as well. At least two on her street were destroyed.Texas Forest Service officials warned Wednesday that it could be another week before the Bastrop County fire — now about 85 percent contained — is fully controlled. Firefighters have saved about 200 homes since the blaze ignited.But the problem isn’t limited to Central Texas. Firefighters also are working to contain a 600-acre fire sparked south of Alpine in Brewster County on Tuesday by a person working with a propane burner on private property. Less than 30 percent contained, the growing blaze is burning between two major subdivisions. Firefighters have saved 25 homes, but another 150 were under direct threat on Wednesday.With much of the state still experiencing severe drought conditions, all residents are encouraged to follow Firewise principals, methods designed to help homeowners reduce their losses by better preparing for wildland fires.Homeowners can better protect themselves by reducing fuels — brush, grass and trees that generally burn in a wildfire — through deliberate landscaping and creation of a defensible space around their homes.Justice Jones, mitigation and prevention coordinator for Texas Forest Service, encouraged residents to circle their homes, looking for any path that fire could follow. That includes any vegetation or flammable materials that lead directly to the house.“It can make the difference between your home surviving a wildfire or not,” Jones said. “That’s the key message: ‘Will a home survive or not?’ is based on paying attention to those details in the landscape.”The following tips provided by Texas Forest Service can help homeowners better prepare for wildfire:Clear dead wood and dense, flammable vegetation that is 30 feet or closer to your home.Remove leaves and pine needles from gutters, roofs and underneath decks.Trim all tree branches overhanging your house including a radius of at least 20-feet around your chimney and 14 feet of overhead, overhang clearance in your driveway.Stack your firewood at least 30 feet from your home.Create a barrier between your home and lawn by using river rock or some other nonflammable material. Keep the lawn trimmed to create a barrier to protect your home.Plan an escape route and discuss it with your family. Have practice drills and include your pets.Check your fire extinguishers. Make sure they’re charged and easy to reach in an emergency. Tell all family members where they are and teach them how to use them.If a wildfire does threaten your home, place a water hose on a rack and attach it to an outside faucet.Web resources:To view photos of the Bastrop County fire, go to http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu and click on the newsroom link.For more information about Firewise Communities, visit http://www.firewise.org.Texas Forest Service Contacts:Justice JonesMitigation and Prevention Coordinator936-546-8042 celljjjones@tfs.tamu.eduSandra TaylorFire Prevention Specialist I936-546-3354 cellstaylor@tfs.tamu.edu



 
|Email to a friend 








