
	Texas Forest Service











ARBOR DAY SIGNIFIES REBIRTH FOR ISLAND DEVASTATED BY HURRICANE IKE









[ Print | 

 ]



March 27, 2009--GALVESTON, Texas--It was the five mighty old oak trees that drew Shaye Henderson and her family to the lot that spans two-thirds of an acre in the Driftwood subdivision.The family built their home around the decades-old trees. They positioned the kitchen so Henderson could look out at them, watching her children play on swings suspended by their strong branches.But just days into spring, the trees — submerged four days last fall in the deep, salty storm surge brought ashore by Hurricane Ike — remain brown and barren.“It’s not just frustrating, it’s heartbreaking,” Henderson said Tuesday. “I must look at my leaves 20 times a day because it just makes our yard … just barren right now. All I can do is hope they come back. I’m having tree envy.”It’s been six months since massive Hurricane Ike slammed ashore, destroying homes and businesses and stranding the trees that didn’t topple in the storm surge. More than 60 percent of Islanders are back. Businesses have re-opened. Homes have been reconstructed.But Texas Forest Service tree experts say it could be several more months — and maybe even years — before they can tell if the trees ultimately will survive the storm.“I’ve got my fingers crossed just like everyone in Galveston,” said Urban Forestry Partnership Coordinator Pete Smith, who surveyed the landscape following the storm and helped draft a treatment plan for the damaged trees.The city — together with Texas Forest Service, Texas Department of Transportation, Houston-Galveston Area Council, Houston Area Urban Forestry Council, the Texas chapter of the International Society of Arboriculture, Apache Oil and Boyer Inc. — will plant nearly 300 trees on Saturday in celebration of Arbor Day. Another 5,000 seedlings provided by the National Arbor Day Foundation will be given to residents.A ceremonial tree planting is scheduled for 11:30 a.m. Friday in front of Galveston City Hall.“That rebirth is what Arbor Day is all about,” Smith said. “Arbor Day is the day that looks to the future of a community. Those trees that live through this and the new ones we plant on Arbor Day to replace those we lose, that’s really about community rebirth.”Hundreds of live oak trees line prominent Broadway Boulevard and many of them were planted following the great storm of 1900, making them more than a century old. The trees not only provide the city with beauty and character, but also are considered a contributing factor for the road’s inclusion on the national register, said Lori Field Schwarz, planning division head and historic preservation officer for the city of Galveston.That’s why city officials immediately called in experts from Texas Forest Service to survey the damage after the storm, she said.Smith and Bayou Region Urban Forestry Coordinator Mickey Merritt spent three days surveying trees in the historic district. Using FEMA standards, the foresters had to determine from a public safety standpoint which trees could stay and which were so damaged they had to go.They looked at thousands of trees and marked just 89 for removal including those that already were on the ground, Smith said.But it wasn’t until two weeks later when the pair returned to the island that they found every leaf had turned brown and was dropping, Smith said, blaming the effect on the salty storm surge that flooded the trees and was soaked up by their roots.Trees need leaves to survive. A tree takes the energy stored in its roots and trunk to grow new leaves each year. Those leaves, in turn, provide energy back to the tree through photosynthesis. “They put on fat for a lean winter day,” Smith said, explaining that a tree can only go about three flushes of leaves before it loses all its stored energy and dies. “It’s like starving to death.”Smith and Merritt said it’s too early to tell how the trees will respond to the trauma. They could develop on time this spring, though foresters already are hearing from worried residents whose trees aren’t sprouting like normal. They also could spout for a shorter time frame or sprout fewer leaves than normal. Even if that happens, the leaves still could turn brown and fall off early if too much salt water remains in the roots, Smith and Merritt said.The trees also might opt to conserve their energy and not sprout any leaves until the following year, the pair said.“I know it looks ugly. I know it’s disheartening,” Merritt said. “You just have to be patient.”The foresters drafted for city officials a recovery plan that calls for flushing tree roots with water, composting and mulching and even adding some sulphur treatments to the soil. Schwarz said the city has been following the recommendations, but she has been warned it could be late April before they see any signs of potential recovery. Until then, all they can do is wait, she said.The city is encouraging residents to keep planting — especially since it remains unclear if the island’s current trees will survive. That’s why the Arbor Day planting is so important, she said.“I think this project and the fact that we’re doing these plantings right now says how much Galveston believes in our recovery,” Schwarz said. “We intend to come back and be thriving and be even better than we were before the storm.”If you have questions about your trees, contact Bayou Region Urban Forestry Coordinator Mickey Merritt by phone at 713.688.8931 or e-mail him at mmerritt@tfs.tamu.edu.Texas Forest Service Contacts:Mickey MerrittBayou Region Urban Forestry Coordinator713.688.8931 (office)832.260.5866 (cell)mmerritt@tfs.tamu.eduHolly HuffmanCommunications Specialist979.458.6605 (office)979.324.0708 (cell)hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








