
	Texas Forest Service











EVERYTHING IS BIGGER AND BETTER IN TEXAS — EVEN THE FORESTS









[ Print | 

 ]



March 25, 2009--AUSTIN, Texas--Texas Forest Service on Wednesday unveiled its first-ever statewide tree inventory, the results from which show the state is poised to take the lead in emerging alternative energy and ecosystem service markets.The Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) initial report shows Texas has 60 million acres of forestland — more than any other state in the continental United States. Of that, 12 million is located in the Piney Woods of East Texas with the remaining acreage spread across the state.This statewide “census for trees” provides a science-based foundation for better management of the land, Texas Forest Service officials announced during a press conference on the south steps of the State Capitol. The inventory helps identify brushlands and encroaching woody vegetation such as mesquite and juniper. The invasive woody vegetation can soak up water and shade out the sun that rangeland grass needs to grow, which creates a problem for cattle raisers.The results also show that Texas is positioned to profit from alternative energy and ecosystem service markets focused on carbon sequestration and the conversion of woody biomass to energy. “Texas Forest Service consistently strives to serve the landowners of the state by attracting and supporting new markets. There is a trend that Texas landowners’ interest is shifting from agriculture production to wildlife and recreation. With the information provided by this latest inventory, TFS can provide landowners with the technical assistance they need to help them manage what they have,” Tom Boggus, TFS interim director said. “It is one of our (TFS) goals to keep forests in forests.”The inventory provides comprehensive data for local, state and regional decision-makers to better plan, set policy and allocate resources. And for the first time Texas has a tool for detecting long term changes in the state’s forests and woodlands. Previously, just East Texas was inventoried and the area, volume and species composition of forestland in the rest of the state wasn’t known.The inventory is a 10-year process that began in January 2004 and won’t be complete until 2014. Despite being just halfway through, results are expected to remain fairly steady. Once complete, the second 10-year cycle will begin, allowing for data comparison.“This field inventory will provide never before available change-over-time information about the rate of forest clearing, invasiveness, and growth, removals and mortality,” said Burl Carraway, TFS sustainable forestry department head. “It will give us a baseline for the future.”The Southern Research Station implements the Forest Inventory and Analysis program in the 13 southern states in partnership with each state forestry agencyTexas Forest Service is recognized as the leading state forestry agency in the nation through its programs in forest and tree development; wildfire prevention, mitigation and protection; urban and community forestry and assisting and training fire departments. Texas Forest Service was created in 1915 by the 34th Legislature as an integral part of The Texas A&M University System. Its mission is to provide statewide leadership to assure Texas’ trees, forests and related natural resources are protected and sustained for the benefit of all.The Southern Research Station is part of the Nation's largest forestry research organization - USDA Forest Service Research and Development. It is the leading organization for research on natural resource management and sustainability in the United States. Headquartered in Asheville, North Carolina, the Southern Research Station serves 13 southern states and beyond. Its staff of 130 scientists is organized into Research Work Units, with science technicians and other support personnel who work at various locations throughout the region: Federal laboratories, universities and experimental forests.Since the beginning of the 20th Century, the Southern Research Station's researchers have excelled in studies on temperate and tropical forests, forest resources and forest products. These studies provide a wealth of long-term datasets and conclusions on the dynamics of tree plantations and natural stands, watersheds and wildlife habitats. Editor’s note: A pdf of the Forest Inventory and Analysis brochure is available at: http://texasforestservice.tamu.edu/uploadedFiles/Sustainable/fia/Publications/Articles/FIAWestTexas_2009.pdf Contacts: Burl CarrawaySustainable Forestry Department HeadTexas Forest Service979.458.6630 (office)936.546.1515 (cell)bcarraway@tfs.tamu.eduLinda MoonCommunications ManagerTexas Forest Service979.458.6606 (office)979.777.9588 (cell)lmoon@tfs.tamu.eduStevin WestcottPress OfficerUSDA Forest Service Southern Research Station828.259.0512 (office)swestcott@fs.fed.us



 
|Email to a friend  








