
	Texas Forest Service











EXTREME WILDFIRE CONDITIONS HIT TEXAS









[ Print | 

 ]



April 11, 2009—COLLEGE STATION, Texas— Wildfire reports are continuously updated as new information is confirmed. Numbers of acres burned and homes lost are estimations at this time. As of 10 a.m. (CDT), more than 140,000 acres have burned. Aircraft activity has been very high on many of the fires burning across the state. Friday alone, aircrafts dropped 369,132 gallons of water and retardant on fires across the state. Efforts to suppress wildfires are ongoing by local fire departments, North Central Texas area fire departments and Texas Forest Service. The Texas Forest Service web site will be updated as information is confirmed. To view the most current wildfire activity map via Google Earth, visit http://tfsfrp.tamu.edu/wildfires/FireActivity.kmlPlease Note: To view fire activity view Google Earth, you will need to download the most recent Google Earth plugin for your browser, which can be found hereContact:Misty WilburnCommunications and Marketing Specialist (979) 458-7349Bill Beebe Jan AmenPublic Information Officers(979) 255-5129----------April 10, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Wildfire reports are continuously updated as new information is confirmed. Numbers of acres burned and homes lost are estimations at this time. As of 5 p.m. (CDT), more than 140,000 acres have burned. The large fire in Montague County is estimated to have burned 38,000 acres. Officials estimate that almost 100 structures have been lost to this fire. There have been four confirmed civilian deaths statewide – three in Montague County and one in Jack/Young counties. Local fire departments, North Central Texas area fire departments and Texas Forest Service continue working to suppress these and other wildfires. The Texas Forest Service web site will be updated as information is confirmed. To view the most current wildfire activity map via Google Earth, visit http://tfsfrp.tamu.edu/wildfires/FireActivity.kmlPlease Note: To view fire activity view Google Earth, you will need to download the most recent Google Earth plugin for your browser, which can be found hereContact:Misty WilburnCommunications and Marketing Specialist (979) 458-7349Bill Beebe Jeanne EasthamJan AmenPublic Information Officers(979) 255-5129---------April 10, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Wildfire reports are updated as new information is confirmed. Numbers of acres burned and homes lost are estimations at this time. As of 11 a.m. (CDT), more than 100,000 acres have burned. An estimated 3,346 homes have been saved and 32 homes have been confirmed lost. The towns of Sunset and Stoneburg were burned over by a large fire in Montague County. There have been two confirmed civilian deaths in Stoneburg. There has been one confirmed civilian death in the Cement Mountain Complex in Jack and Young counties. Aircraft is workingto provide aerial assessments of affected landscapes. Local fire departments, North Central Texas area fire departments and Texas Forest Service will continue working to suppress these wildfires. The Texas Forest Service web site will be updated as information is confirmed. To view the most current wildfire activity map via Google Earth, visit http://tfsfrp.tamu.edu/wildfires/FireActivity.kmlPlease Note: To view fire activity view Google Earth, you will need to download the most recent Google Earth plugin for your browser, which can be found hereContact:Misty WilburnCommunications and Marketing Specialist (979) 458-7349Bill Beebe Lewis Kearney Jeanne EasthamPublic Information Officers(979) 255-5129---------April 10, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--The combination of winds and dry fuels came together yesterday as a force to be reckoned with as wildfires burned across a large portion of Texas. Yesterday, Mother Nature was in control.As of 7 a.m. (CDT), thousands of acres have burned and multiple homes and structures have been lost. Definite numbers are still difficult to report at this time due to the vast scope of this disaster. Texas Forest Service is still working to gather accurate information on civilian fatalities, injuries, structures lost and acres burned, while still protecting the citizens of the state and their property. Local fire departments, North Central Texas area fire departments and Texas Forest Service have worked through the night to contain these raging wildfires. The Texas Forest Service web site will be updated as information is confirmed. To view the most current wildfire activity map, visit our Google Earth map at http://tfsfrp.tamu.edu/wildfires/FireActivity.kmlPlease Note: To view Fire Activity via Google Earth, you will need to download the most recent Google Earth plugin for your browser, which can be found hereContact:Misty WilburnCommunications and Marketing Specialist (979) 458-7349Bill Beebe Lewis Kearney Jeanne EasthamPublic Information Officers(979) 255-5129----------April 9, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Multiple homes and hundreds of acres have been lost to wildfires across the state today as extreme weather conditions that were forecast for Thursday, April 9, 2009, materialized.Reports of wildfires, evacuations and requests for assistance have been coming in to Texas Forest Service all day.Due to the massive number of requests for assistance and wildfire reports, a clear number of acres burned or homes lost in today’s wildfire events is not yet available. Weather conditions at many of the wildfires have made fighting these blazes exceptionally dangerous. Attack on the fires with planes and helicopters was impossible for most of the day due to the high winds. Texas Forest Service has received multiple reports of evacuations, structures lost, acreage burned and additional wildfire starts. Weather conditions are predicted to moderate throughout the night. The Texas Forest Service web site will be updated as information is confirmed.Contact:Misty WilburnCommunications and Marketing Specialist (979) 458-7349Bill Beebe Lewis Kearney Jeanne EasthamPublic Information Officers(979) 255-5129 



 
|Email to a friend 








