
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST EXPO 2009









[ Print | 

 ]



April 15, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Do you want to know how to safely wield a chainsaw or get rid of the feral hogs that roam your property? Would you like to learn landscaping techniques that will lure birds, bees and butterflies to your backyard?Or do you just need a little help selecting the perfect tree for your yard?It doesn’t matter if you’ve got just one tree in your backyard or thousands, Texas Forest Expo 2009 is here to help you. Similar to a lawn and garden show, the annual expo focuses on issues related to land management, wildfire prevention and lawn and garden maintenance. It doesn’t matter the question, Texas Forest Expo has the answers.“It’s an opportunity to network and visit with natural resource professionals,” Regional Forester Joel Hambright said, explaining that natural resources include water, wildlife, trees and just about anything else that helps make up forest ecosystems. “There’s going to be all kinds of experts there. If attendees have questions, they’re going to be able to talk one-on-one with professionals that deal with these issues every day.”Texas Forest Expo is scheduled for April 24-26, 2009, at the Lone Star Convention Center in Conroe. It kicks off Friday with vendor booths and exhibitors only. It then gears up Saturday and Sunday with free classes, live demonstrations and an indoor forest maze located in the Children’s Exploration Room. At the expo, you can learn how to plant and care for your trees, encourage your kids to reconnect with nature and even make money off the carbon stored in the trees on your property without lifting a finger. With wildfire season in full swing, we’ll also have classes dedicated to teaching you how to better protect yourself and your family from the dangerous wildfires that have been ravaging the state. And the Avoid a Second Strike from Hurricane Ike will help you learn how to avoid getting “burned” by increasingly dry and flammable downed trees that still are scattered across the state.Don’t forget to stop by and watch our chainsaw safety and search and rescue dog demonstrations. And make sure you register to win one of our door prizes — including a handcrafted cypress porch rocker and one-night stay complete with breakfast and golf at La Torretta Del Lago on Lake Conroe.Texas Forest Expo hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday. The event also will be open noon to 5 p.m. Friday with vendors and exhibitors only.For more information, go to http://texasforestexpo.tamu.edu, where you can find detailed information about the expo, as well as a class schedule and directions to the event. Also available: an eight-page informational magazine and pre-recorded public service announcements in English and Spanish.Texas Forest Service contacts:Joel HambrightRegional Foresterjhambright@tfs.tamu.edu936-295-5688 office936-546-3151 cellHolly HuffmanCommunication Specialisthhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu979-458-6605 office979-324-0708 cell 



 
|Email to a friend








