
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST EXPO 2009 HELPS YOU PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY FROM A SECOND STRIKE BY HURRICANE IKE









[ Print | 

 ]



April 21, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Hurricane Ike wreaked havoc when it roared across Texas last fall, downing power lines, trees and anything else in its way.Seven months later, the massive storm is once again impacting the state. But unlike the initial onslaught, it’s not wind and waves causing the problem. It is wildfires.The thousands of fallen trees that remain scattered on private property throughout the state are fueling dangerous wildfires, particularly in coastal areas such as Chambers, Jefferson and Hardin counties.“I don’t want to be scary, but we’ve already suffered enough,” said Justice Jones, prevention and mitigation coordinator for Texas Forest Service, referring to the initial blow dealt by Hurricane Ike as he urged landowners to take precautions. “Don’t let a secondary catastrophe happen.”As a landowner, you can learn how to protect your property by attending Avoid a Second Strike from Hurricane Ike, one of nearly two dozen free classes offered at Texas Forest Expo 2009, April 24-26 at the Lone Star Convention Center in Conroe, Texas.Avoid a Second Strike from Hurricane Ike is designed to teach landowners how to safely remove debris from their property and properly prune trees both before and after a storm. The class is scheduled for 9 to 9:45 a.m. and 3:45 to 4:30 p.m. Saturday and again from 1 to 1:45 p.m. Sunday.Texas Forest Expo is designed for all landowners — whether they have just one tree in their back yard or thousands. It offers free classes in wildfire prevention, land management and lawn and garden maintenance, as well live demonstrations, more than 60 information booths and an indoor forest maze for the kids.Four additional wildfire prevention classes focusing on firewise landscaping principles, which aim to help people better prepare for wildfires, will be offered at Texas Forest Expo.How to Become a Firewise Community: 2 to 3:30 p.m. SaturdayBetter Plants for Firewise Landscapes: 1 to 1:45 p.m. Saturday and SundayFamily Fire Safety & Prevention: 3:45 to 4:30 p.m. Saturday and 2 to 2:45 p.m. SundaySafe Burning Practices: 3 to 3:45 p.m. SundayJones said the risk of wildfire increases as landowners burn hurricane debris on their property — particularly with the state in the midst of an ongoing drought. The potential for a catastrophic wildfire also has increased, he said, because there is a massive amount of dry vegetation strewn through the forests.“A lot of fires this season have been in areas where we’ve historically not had wildfires,” Jones said. “And a lot of the fires we’ve had in East Texas are larger because of the added difficulty controlling them.”While most of the debris has been cleared from public lands, private landowners often don’t have the resources to do the same. But Texas Forest Expo can help.For more information about Texas Forest Expo, go online to http://texasforestexpo.tamu.edu. There you can find detailed information about the expo, as well as a class schedule and directions to the event. Also available: an eight-page informational magazine and pre-recorded public service announcements in English and Spanish.Texas Forest Service contacts:Justice Jones, Prevention and Mitigation Coordinator936-273-2261 office, 936-546-8042 celljjjones@tfs.tamu.eduJohn Warner, District Forester936-273-2261 office, 936-546-3169 celljwarner@tfs.tamu.eduHolly Huffman, Communications Specialist979-458-6605 office, 979-324-0708 cellhhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








