
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST EXPO 2009 HELPS MEET THE EVOLVING NEEDS OF NEW LANDOWNERS









[ Print | 

 ]



April 22, 2009--MARSHALL, Texas--Jimmy and Vickey Burnett spent three years searching before they stumbled upon the perfect get-away spot.Just a half hour from their home in Shreveport, the 100-acre tract of land in far East Texas is dotted with tall pines and oak trees so big, you can’t wrap your arms around some of them.“My favorite part is the hardwood bottom. It just takes your breath away year round,” Jimmy Burnett said of the property he and his wife purchased in 2005. “It’s just stunningly beautiful. It hasn’t been touched in excess of 50 years, probably longer. That’s exactly what we were looking for.”Unlike landowners from decades past, the Burnett’s didn’t purchase the land hoping to turn a profit as timber farmers — though they could since a timber plantation covers more than half the acreage.The pair, instead, was drawn to the land by its aesthetic beauty and the calm that it inspires — an increasingly common sentiment among landowners. And the Burnett’s are planning to attend Texas Forest Expo 2009 this weekend in Conroe to learn management tips that will help them keep it that way.“It’s very urban. Landowners have a yard-like attitude. Even if it’s 25 acres, they still look at it like it’s their backyard,” Texas Forest Service Interim Director Tom Boggus said, explaining that the new generation of landowners are urban and well-educated with discretionary incomes. “They have money. What they don’t have is technical expertise. Enter Texas Forest Service.”Foresters now have to use a decidedly different approach when working with these new landowners, Boggus said. The world still needs timber and the products made from it. But no longer can foresters simply tout the financial benefits of harvesting trees.Like the Burnett’s, the vast majority of new landowners are buying smaller tracts of land and they aren’t purchasing them with the goal of making a profit. Many, in fact, are quickly turned off by the thought of cutting down trees on their property.But, Boggus said, they do want to keep their land and their trees healthy. So they explain that landowners should methodically thin their timber stands simply to prevent pests and disease from wiping out their entire forests.Though it isn’t their primary motivation, landowners can even earn a little income by selling the trees that are cut down as part of the thinning process. And some are even paid for the carbon stored in the trees.“How do you keep your piece of Texas healthy?” Boggus said, explaining that foresters now have to approach landowners from a different point of view. “You’ve got to listen to the landowner. It’s their land. What do they want? And from there, how do you bring forest practices in?”Texas Forest Expo is one example of how the state agency and its foresters are evolving to meet the changing needs of landowners. Similar to a home and garden show, the annual expo focuses on issues related to land management, wildfire prevention and lawn and garden maintenance.The event is designed for all landowners — whether they have just one tree in their back yard or thousands — and offers free classes, live demonstrations, more than 60 information booths and an indoor forest maze for the kids.For more information about Texas Forest Expo, go online to http://texasforestexpo.tamu.edu. There you can find detailed information about the expo, as well as a class schedule and directions to the event. Also available: an eight-page informational magazine and pre-recorded public service announcements in English and Spanish.Texas Forest Service contacts:Joel HambrightRegional Foresterjhambright@tfs.tamu.edu936-295-5688 office936-546-3151 cellJohn WarnerDistrict Foresterjwarner@tfs.tamu.edu936-273-2261 office936-546-3169 cellHolly HuffmanCommunications Specialisthhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu979-458-6605 office979-324-0708 cell 



 
|Email to a friend








