
	Texas Forest Service











ALABAMA CREWS HELP FIGHT SOUTH TEXAS WILDFIRES









[ Print | 

 ]



August 19, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Wildland firefighters from across the country have converged in Texas to help the drought-stricken Lone Star State battle potentially devastating wildfires.Twenty-nine states have responded to Texas since July 10, 2009. In South Texas, firefighting crews from several states have helped support the Southern Branch of the Texas Forest Service. The most recent arrivals are from Alabama. Two strike teams consisting of twelve firefighters and four bull dozers arrived from Alabama on Saturday, Aug. 15 for a two-week assignment. Half are stationed in Kingsville, Texas, and half in Edinburg, Texas. The Texas Forest Service office in Kingsville responds to wildland fires that occur anywhere between San Antonio to Brownsville. “I am so proud of our men and women who have trained so hard. I met with them before they left and they were an excited bunch. They love what they do,” Alabama State Forester Linda Casey said. “This is a win-win situation. Our guys receive additional firefighting experience to bring back to Alabama. It is great because one day – and our day will come – we will need to call someone to come and help us.”When the 14-day assignment for these Alabama firefighters is over, other crews and equipment - either from the same or other states - may replace them. This rotation of firefighting forces will continue until Texas Forest Service determines additional help is no longer needed. Texas Forest Service Assistant Chief Regional Fire Coordinator Marty Martinez said the success of the wildland firefighting system lies in the ease of integration among personnel. “It takes little time for us to acclimate with each other,” Martinez said. “We are familiar with not only our own tactics and work, but because of our training and experiences, we quickly form a team that seems as if it has been working together forever.” Cooperating with state and federal agencies across the country to provide firefighting resources wherever they are needed is similar to how Texas Forest Service provides wildfire fighting support to local fire departments within the state.“States are used to working with local government and volunteer fire departments, so it is easy for them to fit in when they go assist another state,” Texas Forest Service Emergency Response Coordinator Cynthia Foster said. “They understand the politics because they deal with very similar issues at home every day.” During periods of very high fire danger and numerous wildfires, Texas Forest Service may request firefighters and/or firefighting equipment through the Southern Area Coordination Center in Atlanta. This is an example of how wildland firefighting organizations across the country join together to help each other. “Wildland firefighters feel a real loyalty to one another, so when it's difficult to find resources, states will really dig deep to help one another.” Foster said. “We feel like one big family and we all really try to find a way to help.” When other areas of the country need firefighting help and their Regional Interagency Coordination Center cannot meet their needs, the unfilled request goes to the National Interagency Coordination Center in Boise, Idaho. Within hours, Texas crews and equipment can be in route to wildfires in states such as California, Wyoming or even Alaska. For more information about the current wildfire situation, go to Texas Forest Service Advisories.Contacts:Marq WebbPublic Information Officer979-571-7754information@tfs.tamu.edu Marty MartinezAssistant Chief Regional Fire Coordinator, Texas Forest Service979-218-2404mmartinez@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend 








