
	Texas Forest Service











2009 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE HOSTED IN TEXAS









[ Print | 

 ]



November 13, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas—More than 400 incident management professionals from across the U.S. converged in Houston for the Second Annual All-Hazard Incident Management Team (AHIMT) Training and Educational Conference.Texas Forest Service (TFS) hosted the conference, held Nov. 4-6, which was designed to provide critical lessons learned and best practice information from existing AHIMTs to others. Developed on a grassroots level, the conference now represents a national effort to build local incident management capabilities.“The second AHIMT Training and Educational Conference was hosted in Texas because we have the largest and most active AHIMT program in the nation,” said Texas Forest Service Fire Operations Chief Mark Stanford. “Texas is considered a leader in the all-hazard field.”Topics covered included position task books and checklists, training requirements and the credentialing program, grants and funding, deployment standards, team startup equipment and procedures.During the conference, federal, state and local officials highlighted the capabilities of local AHIMTs and the successes they have had on major incidents in the past. Conference coordinators said they hoped the conference would provide policy makers, AHIMT members and training coordinators with information that would help the continued development of the AHIMT program. “This conference gave team members the ability to interact with other state and federal entities that have AHIMT program responsibilities,” said Paul Hannemann, TFS incident response department head. “Teams were able to network, which brings consistency to what everyone is doing and addresses issues and concerns that are common in all states.” This year’s attendees more than tripled the attendance at the 2008 conference. Stephen Foley, program manager for AHIMT at the US Fire Administration, said, “This year’s conference was larger because of the growth of the all-hazard program nationwide and its recognition by the Department of Homeland Security. “All-hazard members are realizing they have many things to offer to their locals as well as their nation. Texas has set the [AHIMT] bar really high for others to follow and has been great about sharing experiences and best practices.” TYPE III teams in TexasIn Texas, TFS heads the Type III AHIMT program. The program has more than 350 team members representing more than 50 jurisdictions. At any given time, eight regional, 10-person teams are prepared to respond to incidents across the state.“The Type III teams in Texas go to the core of building capacity that the state did not have in the past,” said Bob Koenig, TFS incident management team coordinator. “We can now quickly respond to any type of incident in any jurisdiction across the state.”Texas Type III AHIMTs have responded to a variety of major disasters including fires in Montague County; the Eagle Pass Tornado; East Texas, Central Texas and Presidio floods; Hurricanes Dolly, Eduardo, Gustav and Ike; and H1N1 Flu State Preparedness. “The conference brought more than 400 Type III team members from across the state together and provided them a forum to discuss their experiences and hone their knowledge to be better responders,” Koenig said. In 2003, the United States Fire Administration created the All-Hazard Incident Management Team Technical Assistance Program. Since its inception, the program has been used to develop local incident management capabilities. Many of the needed capabilities were noted during and after the 9/11 terror attacks and Hurricane Katrina.  



 
|Email to a friend








