
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE PROTECTS 10,000 ACRES OF FORESTLAND SURROUNDING BIG THICKET









[ Print | 

 ]



December 22, 2009--COLLEGE STATION, Texas--Texas Forest Service on Monday formally completed its third Forest Legacy Project, permanently protecting more than 10,000 acres of privately-owned forestland surrounding the Big Thicket in East Texas.The protection comes in the form of a 10,729-acre conservation easement that serves as a buffer around the national preserve just about 100 miles northeast of Houston. The easement ensures the land won’t be developed or subdivided.Texas Forest Service successfully competed for $3.5 million in federal funds to complete the three-phase Turkey Creek Forest Legacy Project. An additional $1.1 million was contributed in the form of a matching grant from The Conservation Fund, a non-profit agency dedicated to conservation.“The bottom line is to keep forests in forests,” said Jan Davis, Texas Forest Service staff forester. “To protect forests threatened by conversion to non-forest use.”The Forest Legacy Program was created to protect working forests that are privately owned, economically and environmentally beneficial to the state and threatened by conversion. The federal program is funded by the USDA Forest Service.Forests help protect water quantity and quality, wildlife habitats and open space. With fewer forests, Davis said, there would be more soil erosion seeping into rivers, which affects water quality. With fewer trees, she added, less carbon could be sequestered in their trunks, which affects air quality.“As far as being a buffer, the larger the forest, the more diverse the ecosystem, which means you attract and obtain more wildlife,” Davis said.The land on which the Turkey Creek conservation easement is located is privately owned by the Campbell Group. The easement allows for the group to continue operating their sustainable, working forest — providing timber products and services, carbon sequestration and recreation — while also creating a wildlife buffer around the Big Thicket and protecting the water supply for nearby Beaumont and the coastal estuaries in the Gulf of Mexico.Without the benefits provided by the forest, there would be less water available to residents in Beaumont, Davis said, noting that the city’s water treatment facility would have to work harder to clean the water that remained. If water isn’t clean as it enters the Gulf of Mexico, it offsets the balance of the ocean ecosystem as well, she said.Texas joined the program in 2005 after being declared by the governor as the state’s lead agency on the project. It was the 34th state in the nation to enter the program. Nearly 100 projects are submitted each year, but just 25 to 30 are funded each year.Funded in 2007, Turkey Creek Phase I was the second project submitted by Texas Forest Service. Turkey Creek Phase II was funded the following year. The agency planned to seek funding for Turkey Creek Phase III in 2009, but instead was able to complete the second and third phase at the same time. The easements were filed in each county on Monday.Though the Turkey Creek project is complete, Texas Forest Service’s work isn’t done. The agency recently competed and was awarded $1.8 million in Forest Legacy Funds for a new project — a 4,850-acre tract of land also owned by the Campbell Group and located in the Long Leaf Ridge area of East Texas near Angelina National Forest and the Sam Rayburn Reservoir. The project focuses on long leaf pine restoration and the first of two phases is expected to be complete within the year. The agency also is seeking funding for two additional projects in 2011 near the Sam Rayburn Reservoir: Long Leaf Ridge Phase II, which includes about 3,500 acres owned by the Campbell Group, and the Howard Tract, which is owned by a nonindustrial private forest owner and covers about 2,300 acres.The Forest Legacy Program is unlike other conservation projects simply because of the sheer number of partners involved, Davis said. “There are so many partnerships – private individuals, conservation organizations, state government, federal government, all working together to conserve privately-owned forestland,” Davis said as she explained why forest conservation was important. “It’s just so fundamental. To me, it’s the right thing to do.”For more information, read the Texas Forest Service story Landmark conservation deal protects more than 2,800 acres. Or check out the US Forest Service Forest Legacy Program and The Conservation Fund. 



 
|Email to a friend








