
	Texas Forest Service











BOGGUS NAMED DIRECTOR OF TEXAS FOREST SERVICE









[ Print | 

 ]



Feb. 12, 2010 — COLLEGE STATION, Texas — Veteran forester Tom G. Boggus was named Friday as director of Texas Forest Service, the state agency at which he has worked for the past three decades. The Texas A&M University System Board of Regents selected Boggus as the sole finalist for the post last month. Today’s unanimous approval followed a 21-day waiting period required by state law.Dr. Mark A. Hussey, vice chancellor and dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, said he was delighted to have Boggus leading Texas Forest Service. The agency is tasked with protecting and sustaining the state’s trees, forests and related natural resources“Tom’s experience and passion for Texas forestry make him well-suited to lead our outstanding TFS employees across the state,” Hussey said. “I look forward to working with him to help Texas A&M AgriLife fulfill our land-grant mission of teaching, research, extension and service.”Boggus spent the last three decades working for the agency, rising through the ranks. He was associate director for forest resource development and sustainable forestry when he was tapped in May 2008 to serve as interim director, replacing retiring director James Hull.“I am extremely pleased that Tom Boggus is joining the A&M System’s top tier of leadership,” said Chancellor Michael D. McKinney. “He is an outstanding leader and a proven administrator. Tom also has a strong track record building working relationships across the state.”TFS leads the South when it comes to developing the latest practices and programs related to forestry, wildfire prevention and incident response. “That’s going to continue to be our standard,” Boggus said. “As part of our land-grant history, we’ve always had a clear mission to serve the people of Texas. That means getting good, real science out to the users.”As the agency moves forward, Boggus said one of his priorities is to foster a family atmosphere in an organization known for its hard work, long hours, dedication and valor. “I want everyone in the TFS and everyone we work with to know they’re not talking to ‘Mr. Boggus,’ they’re talking to Tom,” he said. “I think people can feel that.”- 30 -Photo available upon request.For more information about Texas Forest Service, go to texasforestservice.tamu.edu. Writer:Holly Huffman Texas Forest Service Communications Specialist979-458-6605hhuffman@tfs.tamu.eduContact:Linda MoonTexas Forest Service Communications Manager979-458-6614lmoon@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








