
	Texas Forest Service











BOGGUS SELECTED AS DIRECTOR OF TEXAS FOREST SERVICE









[ Print | 

 ]



Feb. 12, 2010 — COLLEGE STATION, Texas — Tom G. Boggus was just 6-years-old when he decided he wanted to be a forester.It was 1961 and the first-grader had spent the summer with his parents, crisscrossing the West in 16-foot Shasta trailer pulled by an old Ford station wagon. They saw Sequoias and sugar pines. They stayed in National Forests. The family even visited saw and plywood mills.The impression it left on the young boy from the flat West Texas town of Fort Stockton was undeniable. He wasn’t quite sure what a forester did, he said chuckling. But he knew then that the job was meant for him.“People want to do the right thing. They just don’t know what the right thing is lots of times,” Boggus said, explaining the importance of providing technical assistance to landowners across the state. “There are 23 million Texans. To make a difference, we’ve got to give them the knowledge they need.”Boggus was named Friday as director of Texas Forest Service, a member of The Texas A&M University System tasked with protecting and sustaining the state’s trees, forests and related natural resources.A veteran forester, Boggus spent the last three decades working for the agency, rising up the ranks. He was working as the associate director for forest resource development and sustainable forestry when he was tapped in May 2008 to serve as interim director, replacing retiring Director James Hull.The Texas A&M University System Board of Regents announced Boggus was the sole finalist for the directorship late last month. The panel unanimously approved his hiring on Friday after waiting a state-mandated 21 days.Dr. Mark A. Hussey, vice chancellor and dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, said he was delighted to have Boggus leading Texas Forest Service.“Tom’s experience and passion for Texas forestry make him well suited to lead our outstanding TFS employees across the state,” Hussey said. “I look forward to working with him to help Texas A&M AgriLife fulfill our land-grant mission of teaching, research, extension and service.”Boggus said he was humbled and gratified upon his initial selection as interim state forester. But with so much going on — a legislative session, a devastating wildfire season, the expansion of Texas Wildfire Protection Plan and an exhaustive review by the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission — he had little time to stop and worry about taking on the new job.“Quite frankly, I’ve ignored the ‘interim’ from day one. There was too much riding on it. This agency is too important to me. This agency is my life,” Boggus said. “I wasn’t going to just sit by and babysit. We had to move forward.”Though his title is changing, he said his plan of attack — constantly moving forward — isn’t.Texas Forest Service leads the South when it comes to developing the latest practices and programs related to forestry, wildfire prevention and incident response, and Boggus said that won’t change. His goal, he said, is to continue to cultivate and nurture leaders in the agency who aren’t afraid to take the reins and try something new.Leaders must be innovative, he said, and they have to work together. With just 370 employees scattered across the vast Lone Star State, partnerships are key. The agency must build and maintain partnerships with interested stakeholders to truly make a difference in the lives of Texans, he said.“As part of our land-grant history, we’ve always been people-centered,” Boggus said as he explained how Texas Forest Service employees serve as the facilitators between researchers who develop new practices and the landowners who need them. “Our job is to get good, real science out to the users.”As the agency moves forward, Boggus also will have some hiring of his own to do. Out of three associate director positions, one is staffed by an interim and another is vacant. Boggus plans to immediately begin the process of permanently filling those posts, which he said should bring some calm and direction to the agency.The agency leader said he also hopes to bring a familial atmosphere back to the agency.“We’re on the national map, no doubt. We’re on the national scene. But being in a national leadership role for state forestry came at a price,” Boggus said, pointing to the disconnect between the College Station headquarters and field offices. “I want to restore the family atmosphere. I want them to know they’re not talking to Mr. Boggus, they’re talking to Tom. I think people can feel that.”- 30 -Photo available upon request.For more information about Texas Forest Service, go to texasforestservice.tamu.edu. Writer:Holly Huffman Texas Forest Service Communications Specialist979-458-6605hhuffman@tfs.tamu.eduContact:Linda MoonTexas Forest Service Communications Manager979-458-6614lmoon@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








