
	Texas Forest Service











DO YOUR PART TO PREVENT SPRING WILDFIRES









[ Print | 

 ]



April 1, 2010—COLLEGE STATION, Texas—Spring is finally here and across the state Texans are outside cleaning up around their homes and enjoying the sunshine. Even though the grasses and trees are starting to green up, this can be a dangerous time of year for wildfires. Wherever dormant grasses remain in abundance, wildfires are possible when conditions get dry and windy. It only takes a spark to ignite dead grass when relative humidity is low. When high winds coincide with the dry conditions, rapidly spreading, wind-driven wildfires are common. According to Texas Forest Service prevention staff, in Texas humans cause more than 90 percent of all wildfires. “Anytime you have more people outside – cleaning, doing yard work, hiking, picnicking – you have more opportunities for carelessness to cause wildfires,” Mahlon Hammetter, TFS fire prevention specialist, said. “Everyone should be especially careful with all fire and equipment use around dead and dormant vegetation, particularly during dry periods.”Keep spring safe and protect your home and property from wildfires by following a few safety tips. Know if there is a burn ban in place for your town, city or county before starting a fire.If you burn, remove large areas of combustible material, such as grass, leaves and scrap wood from a wide area around the material.Do not burn debris during periods of high to extreme fire danger. Even when conditions improve, avoid burning trash and other debris on dry, windy days.Do not leave your burn pile unattended and have a water hose ready.Build campfires in open, level spots away from trees and overhanging branches. Keep fires small and make sure they are cold to the touch before leaving.Make sure spark arresters and mufflers on outdoor equipment are in good working order.When grilling outdoors, make sure barbecue coals and ashes are cold to the touch. Avoid using barbecue pits and grills over dry vegetation. Dispose of the ashes properly.Avoid parking in areas where the hot underside of your vehicle could touch the vegetation beneath it.Dispose of smoking materials properly by using vehicle ashtrays or by crushing smokes and matches dead out in bare mineral soil.For more information, visit Texas Forest Service at texasforestservice.tamu.edu. Contacts:Mahlon Hammetter – Lufkin 936.639.8162 office936.546.1895 cellMary Kay Hicks – McGregor254.840.9086 office936.546.1590 cellSandra Taylor – Fredericksburg 830.997.5426 office936.546.3554 cell 








