
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE SCHOOLS SAM HOUSTON STATE STUDENT TEACHERS IN ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION









[ Print | 

 ]



April 5, 2010 — RIVERSIDE, Texas — Texas Forest Service Forester Dawn Vollmer scattered dozens of red, white and blue poker chips on the ground and then watched as the crowd of college students dropped their up-stretched arms and scrambled to collect them.Each chip color represented something trees need to survive – water, sunlight and nutrients – and the Sam Houston State University students who were pretending to be trees had been told to scoop up as many as they could. “Who got one of each? Who didn’t?” Vollmer asked as the students surveyed their loot and determined whether they collected enough to survive. “Can you see this happening in the real world?”More than 200 Sam Houston students studying to become teachers converged Wednesday at the university’s Bearkat Camp for Walk in the Forest, the largest Project Learning Tree workshop in the state.A premier environmental education program, Project Learning Tree uses hands-on, interdisciplinary activities to get prekindergarten through 12th grade students reconnected with the outdoors while teaching them lessons that correspond with state curriculum standards.A national program, Project Learning Tree is provided by the American Forest Foundation. In Texas, it’s sponsored by Texas Forest Service and Texas Forestry Association. The Walk in the Forest workshop was sponsored by Texas Forest Service, Rotor-Tech Inc, First National Bank of Huntsville, Walker County Timber Growers Association.“It’s about kids — getting kids outdoors and actively engaged in learning,” said Jake Donellan, lead workshop facilitator and district forester with Texas Forest Service. “It’s based on the whole mantra of No Child Left Inside.”The No Child Left Inside slogan is a takeoff on the name of the No Child Left Behind Act. It’s based on the concept that many children have lost their connection to the natural world because they now are so tied to video, television and computer screens. Children learn what they see, so it’s important to expose them to a variety of different people and careers. Walk in the Forest helps student teachers learn how to incorporate forestry into their future classrooms.“I see this with my own son. I see him tied up with video games,” Donellan said. “When I get him outside, he loves it and he has just as much fun as he does with the video games. He’s interested in the outdoors. But if I let him play video games all day, that’s what he’s going to do.”At the training, the student teachers rotated through six different stations, each focused on a hands-on sample activity they could plan for their classrooms. While participating in the Tree Factory, students learned about the different parts that make up a tree. At How Big is Your Tree, they learned how to measure trees using only their hands, eyes and a reference point. At Every Tree For Itself, the students, pretending to be trees, battled for different colored poker chips“We had to act it out. Little kids would love that,” Melissa Pacobit, a 23-year-old senior at Sam Houston, said, referring to Every Tree For Itself. “Kids get tired of sitting in the classroom. There’s so much outside kids can learn from.”The day also allowed the students to brainstorm with each other and facilitators. Pacobit said she was working on a science lesson and had planned to bring in fake leaves for the students to study. But she learned Wednesday that it would be more engaging for the children if she took them outside and let them find their own leaves.Mance Park Middle School teacher Sandra Bounds co-led the Project Learning Tree History/Hike Through the Guide/Lesson Planning session, which was designed to help the future teachers navigate through the program guide.Though any teacher can become involved with Project Learning Tree, Bounds said it’s particularly successful to catch the student teachers while they’re still in college. Doing so allows them to accumulate a ready base of information — potential classroom lessons and a bank of natural resource professionals and forestry experts who can help them — before they get entrenched in the daily grind.“Nowhere else can you educate 200 people in one day with these kind of resources,” said Bounds, who has been involved with Project Learning Tree for most of her 17-year career. “It connects them to the community.”Senior Loren Van Huss, 24, said the sessions helped her learn how to incorporate the activities into the classroom, as well as how to engage the kids and get them learning outside. “You can tell how passionate these people are,” Van Huss said, referring to the organizers and facilitators. “They really care about forestry.”- 30 – For more information, visit the Texas Forest Service web site. Or, view our online photo gallery.Contact: Jake Donellan, District Forester, Texas Forest Servicejdonellan@tfs.tamu.edu, 936-295-5688Writer: Holly Huffman, Communications Specialist, Texas Forest Servicehhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu, 979-458-6605



 
|Email to a friend








