
	Texas Forest Service











REMEMBER ARBOR DAY: TEXAS FOREST SERVICE CELEBRATES URBAN FORESTRY DURING SAN ANTONIO TREE CELEBRATION









[ Print | 

 ]



April 23, 2010 — SAN ANTONIO, Texas — Forester Paul Johnson knows trees are important. He knew that long before he started working for Texas Forest Service.Trees are the largest, longest-living, most valuable part of the landscape. And yet, he said, people often spend more on their lawns — sodding, mowing, fertilizing and the like — than they do on their trees.“Trees clean the air, they control flooding, they clean the water,” Johnson said, easily listing a handful of societal benefits they provide. “We really need to pay better attention to the concept of trees so we can take better care of our trees.”Johnson is hoping he can help get the word out on April 30 — Arbor Day. This year marks the state’s 121st Arbor Day celebration. Festivities will kick off at 11:30 a.m. at the Alamo in downtown San Antonio, the nation’s seventh-largest city. The event is open to the public.The celebration is planned for the Alamo plaza, where tall buildings stand juxtaposed next to mighty tree trunks covered in green leaves. As a result, Johnson said, the concept of urban forestry will play a major role in the event.“Everywhere there are people, people plant trees,” Johnson said. “Those trees are, collectively, our urban forest.”Event organizers and attendees will spend most of the morning replanting trees and emphasizing the connection between trees and the community. Tom Boggus, state forester and director of the Texas Forest Service, will serve as the master of ceremonies.San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro and City Manager Sheryl Scully will take part in the celebration, as will dignitaries from various state and local organizations including the Texas Forestry Association, Keep Texas Beautiful, Keep San Antonio Beautiful, Texas Nursery and Landscape Association, Alamo Forest Partnership and the Texas Chapters of the International Society of Arboriculture and Society of American Foresters.Several awards and recognitions also will be announced including the Urban and Community Forest Leadership Award, Community Forest Volunteer of the Year and State Tree Planting Awards.The celebration will conclude with a tour of the trees on the Alamo grounds led by Alamo Horticulturist Mark Nauschutz.Roughly 100 trees will be given away during the event. Another 250 will be given out the following day during Solar Fest, an annual San Antonio festival designed to showcase solar technologies and innovations.“On Arbor Day, we really emphasize the celebration of trees,” Johnson said. “It’s a tree-planting holiday and it gives us a chance to really talk about that.”- 30 –Texas Forest Service Contacts: Paul Johnson, Forester210-494-4771, pjohnson@tfs.tamu.eduHolly Huffman, Communications Specialist979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu








