
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS WOODLAND &AMP; WILDLIFE EXPO OFFERS FREE HELP FOR HOMEOWNERS AND LANDOWNERS









[ Print | 

 ]



April 27, 2010 — CONROE, Texas — Maybe you want to plant a tree but you’re not sure which species is best-suited to your backyard. Perhaps your goal is to lure wildlife to your ranch or stock your pond with the right kind of fish, but you’re not sure how. Or maybe you’d just like to learn how to keep certain pesky weeds and animals out of your garden.Enter Texas Woodland & Wildlife Expo.The annual event scheduled for May 1 & 2 at the Lone Star Convention Center in Conroe is a one-stop-shop for homeowners and landowners eager to learn as much as they can about the land on which they live. Expo has gathered the region’s premier natural resource professionals and industry experts and gathered them in one convenient location. “We think this is so important,” said Joel Hambright, a regional forester with Texas Forest Service and one of the event founders. “It’s an opportunity to get together, enjoy the day and take advantage of the clearinghouse of natural resource professionals that will be there to answer questions. They’ll basically cover anything in the natural resources realm that you’re interested in.”In its inaugural year, Texas Woodland and Wildlife Expo was born out of a partnership between Texas Forest Service, U.S. Forest Service, Texas Parks & Wildlife and Texas AgriLife Extension. Texas Forest Service previously organized Texas Forest Expo, an annual event designed to reach out to East Texas landowners. But as the event grew in size and success, organizers decided it was time to expand. With a broad focus on natural resources, Texas Woodland & Wildlife Expo now has experts available in variety of areas including trees and plants, land management, wildlife habitats, wildfire prevention, lawn and garden maintenance and water.Free and open to the public, Expo offers more than two dozen free classes, several live demonstrations and scores of exhibitors showcasing the latest technology available to home and land owners. Got a specific question? Head over to the ‘Ask the Experts’ booth. And don’t forget to stop by the Family Outdoor Zone where your kids can climb a rock wall, jump in a kayak, shoot a bow and arrow and even have their picture taken with Smokey Bear. Complete the Family Outdoor Challenge and you’ll be eligible for a grand prize.If you’re interested in protecting your home and neighborhood from wildfires, sign up for our Firewise Communities wildfire workshop held April 30, the day before Expo kicks off.“I definitely think our partnership with Texas Parks & Wildlife and ArgiLife Extension has really grown this event,” Hambright said, pointing to the scores of experts as a huge draw for home and landowners. “There’s going to be more for the kids to do in the Family Outdoor Zone and more for their parents to learn in the classes we’re offering. We’ve used past surveys to really fine-tune our class offerings and exhibitors.”For detailed information about Expo including a class schedule and list of speakers, go to expo.tamu.edu.- 30 - Texas Forest Service contacts:Joel Hambright, Regional Foresterjhambright@tfs.tamu.edu936-295-5688 office or 936-546-3151 cellJohn Warner, District Foresterjwarner@tfs.tamu.edu936-273-2261 office or 936-546-3169 cellHolly Huffman, Communications Specialisthhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu979-458-6605 office or 979-324-0708 cell



 
|Email to a friend








