
	Texas Forest Service











HOUSTON STUDENTS HEAD TO THE FOREST TO LEARN ABOUT NATURE









[ Print | 

 ]







 

 

 





May 13, 2010 — CONROE, Texas — Hundreds of Houston fourth-graders are venturing out of the city and into the woods this week as part of Exploring Houston’s Backyard & Beyond at Jones State Forest in Conroe.The annual program is designed to get inner-city kids reconnected with nature by teaching them about forest ecosystems in a real forest setting. For many of the students, the trip marks their first time to visit a forest — despite living just 40 miles south of one.Exploring Houston’s Backyard & Beyond kicked off Monday, May 10. Throughout the week, roughly 1,200 students from the Houston Independent School District are expected to get an up close and personal look at nature and its benefits.“Both Houston ISD and Texas Forest Service see the important role nature plays in children’s lives,” said John Warner, Texas Forest Service urban district forester and program coordinator. “In the forest kids learn and develop skills that they otherwise wouldn’t in a traditional classroom.”The environmental education program originally was launched with a grant from the U.S. Forest Service. It now is sponsored by Texas Forest Service and program partner Devon Energy, one of the largest independent natural gas and oil exploration and production companies in North America. The corporation recently committed to its second $10,000, three-year donation.Additional supporters include U.S. Forest Service, Urban Connections, Stephen F. Austin University, Latino Legacy, Waste Management, Society of American Foresters, International Society of Arborists, Natural Resource Conservation Service, Texas Master Naturalists and Texas Parks & Wildlife.Since its inception almost two decades ago, nearly 15,000 students have gone through the environmental education program, which Warner described as one of the top in the state. It also is the longest running program featuring healthy forests, he said.“Exploring Houston’s Backyard & Beyond has been one of the state’s premier environmental learning venues and I think that’s because it has stayed relevant — to both state curriculum and school district standards and to kids,” Warner said. “The students are having fun while focusing on learning the fundamentals.”Houston Elementary Science Curriculum Manager Sandra Antalis echoed Warner’s sentiments, saying she felt the program was beneficial for students in the district.“It is an educational experience based on ‘real-life,’” Antalis said. “Exploring nature provides a foundation for fostering thinking skills and concept development as aligned to the HISD curriculum and state standards. We have seen academic growth for the students that have been through this program.”Exploring Houston’s Backyard & Beyond will continue daily from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. through Friday, May 14. - 30 –For more information or to attend Exploring Houston’s Backyard & Beyond, contact:John Warner, Urban District Forester936-546-3169, jwarner@tfs.tamu.eduHolly Huffman, Communications Specialist979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu



 
|Email to a friend








