
	Texas Forest Service











NEW POSITION IN TEMPLE HELPS TEXAS FOREST SERVICE BETTER SERVE LANDOWNERS









[ Print | 

 ]



June 21, 2010 — TEMPLE, Texas — Texas Forest Service has named a veteran forester to the new role of farm bill coordinator in an effort to foster partnerships with the Natural Resource Conservation and better serve landowners across the state. Veteran Forester Shane Harrington was selected to fill the newly-created post, job duties for which will focus on developing joint programs with the Natural Resource Conservation Service and ensuring forestry is represented in current and future farm bills.“This position is important,” said Staff Forester Jan Davis, who supervises Harrington. “Drafts and opportunities for input in the next farm bill (2012) are already circulating nationally. With Shane in the Temple office, we can make sure that forestry is kept in the discussions.”Harrington will be stationed at the Natural Resource Conservation Service headquarters in Temple. In his new role, he’ll work with the National Resource Conservation Service on both new and existing programs designed to better serve Texas landowners. “Farm bill is nationwide, but we’re working with National Resource Conservation Service to determine statewide issues,” Harrington said. “If we need to develop a program, we’ll get support from them to develop it – whether it’s technical assistance, cost share assistance or whatever we need to do.” Harrington, a former staff forester from Lufkin, said his goal is to shift attention to new, non-traditional landowners in Central Texas while at the same time maintaining a focus on more traditional, East Texas landowners. He said he feels confident that there is a program available to help every landowner achieve his or her goals, no matter what they are.“I’m very excited about it,” said Harrington. “I think everybody at some point in their career hopes to have the opportunity to make an impact on forestry and our natural resources. I believe in this capacity, this is an opportunity not only for me, but for Texas Forest Service to continue making that impact.”For more information, read Texas Forest Service partners with Natural Resource Conservation Service to protect state’s natural resources.– 30 –Contacts:Shane Harrington, Forester and Farm Bill Coordinatorsharrington@tfs.tamu.eduHolly Huffman, Communications Specialisthhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu, 979-458-6605Writer: Rachel Morrisrmorris@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








