
	Texas Forest Service











BASTROP WILDFIRE ACADEMY AIMS TO READY FIREFIGHTERS FOR A POTENTIALLY DEVASTATING WINTER FIRE SEASON









[ Print | 

 ]



Oct. 4, 2010 — BASTROP, Texas — With a potentially devastating wildfire season looming on the horizon, state officials are encouraging firefighters to head to Bastrop later this month for one of the nation’s largest wildfire academies. The 13th annual Capital Area Interagency Wildfire Academy is designed for both beginning and advanced firefighters, municipal and rural volunteer firefighters and structural and wildland firefighters. Held at Camp Swift, the academy begins Oct. 19 and runs through Nov. 1.Three dozen classes are offered at the academy. Topics include basic firefighting, ignitions, basic engine and suppression tactics, leadership, incident command, chainsaw safety, dozer operations, helicopter training and emergency vehicle operations.“We want to get the word out to firefighters who want to get trained because we’re looking at a serious fire season, and the local responders are our first line of defense,” said Jan Amen, fire prevention specialist with Texas Forest Service. “We hope they will learn how to keep themselves safe because that’s absolutely No. 1.”Hundreds of firefighters often come from across the country — and sometimes from across the globe — to attend the two-week training academy, Amen said. Rather than having to attend for the duration of the academy, attendees can pick and choose applicable classes, many of which are offered on weekends.The cost is $60 per day and includes breakfast, lunch and course materials. Volunteer firefighters can be reimbursed for this cost through the Rural Volunteer Fire Department Assistance Program, a grant program funded by the state and administered by Texas Forest Service.Free lodging is available for firefighters who choose to stay in the base barracks or tent camp.“It’s as close to a fire assignment as you can get without actually going to a fire that has the potential to burn houses down,” Amen said. “It gives you the opportunity to get a real good feel for a fire assignment. Feeling that heat in your face is best way to know if this is for you or not.”The academy is a joint effort coordinated by Texas Forest Service, U.S. Forest Service, National Park Service, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Weather Service, The Nature Conservancy, National Wildfire Coordinating Group, Texas Wildfire Association, Texas Army National Guard, Bastrop County Office of Emergency Management and area fire departments.For more information or to register, go to the Texas Interagency Coordination Center training page. Or, contact the academy registrar at AcademyRegistrar@tfs.tamu.edu or 979-458-7330.###Contacts:Jan Amen, Fire Prevention Specialist936-639-8100 office, 936-546-1004 cell, jamen@tfs.tamu.eduMeredith McNeil, Academy Registrar979-458-7330, AcademyRegistrar@tfs.tamu.eduWriter:Holly Huffman, Communications Specialist979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








