
	Texas Forest Service











‘EMERGING COMMUNITIES’ WORKSHOP HELPS CITY OFFICIALS AVOID URBAN SPRAWL









[ Print | 

 ]



Oct. 19, 2010 — RICHARDSON, Texas — Your community is growing — fast. New homes are popping up. New businesses are opening their doors. New people are moving in.That’s a good thing. But it’s even better if you’re prepared for it. Texas Emerging Communities can help you get ready.The Texas Emerging Communities Dallas/Fort Worth Regional Workshop aims to link city officials with natural resource professionals so they can prepare for development — before it happens.“We’re hoping that if community leaders are provided the tools and resources, perhaps they’ll go to these resources and ask questions and be proactive rather than trying to fix problems after the fact,” said Texas Forest Service Special Projects Coordinator Crystal Davis, who is organizing the workshop.The free workshop is scheduled for 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Nov. 11, in the Richardson Civic Center. It focuses on sustainable planning, emergency management, community forestry, water conservation and wildfire protection. The targeted communities — towns that have less than 25,000 people but are expected to experience rapid growth over the next 20 years — are centered in Collin, Dallas, Denton, Ellis, Johnson, Kaufman, Parker, Rockwall and Tarrant counties.During the morning session, community officials will learn about the different natural resource professionals that can help them. The afternoon will feature a case study panel, during which city leaders and natural resource professionals will discuss their differing approaches to real issues taken from existing communities.Follow up workshops based on individual community needs will provide participants with more technical knowledge.Dr. Elise Bright, a landscape architecture and urban planning professor at Texas A&M University, pointed to Emerging Communities as a program that can teach community leaders how to put their natural assets to work for them when it comes to attracting development.“Communities that take the steps needed to preserve their forests, ponds and other natural resources are also more attractive to quality developers,” said Bright, whose department is partnered with the Emerging Communities Program.“You don’t have to throw the baby out with the bathwater in order to attract growth and development. Communities that don’t preserve these assets often end up with the kinds of development no one wants, and also suffer more damage in floods and hurricanes.”For more information, go to Texas Emerging Communities. To register, contact Crystal Davis at 979-458-6650 or crdavis@tfs.tamu.edu. The workshop is free, and breakfast and lunch are provided. The registration deadline is Oct. 28.Event DetailsTexas Emerging Communities Dallas/Fort Worth Regional WorkshopNov. 11, 2010 - 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.Richardson Civic Center, 411 West Arapoho Road, Richardson, Texas, 75080Registration: Contact Crystal Davis at 979-458-6650 or crdavis@tfs.tamu.edu by Oct. 28. The event is free. Breakfast and lunch are provided.###Contact: Crystal Davis, Special Projects Coordinator979-458-6650, crdavis@tfs.tamu.eduWriter:Holly Huffman, Communications Specialist979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 



 
|Email to a friend








