
	Texas Forest Service











NEW WORLD RESIDENTS WORK TO EARN NATIONAL RECOGNITION









[ Print | 

 ]



ETOILE, Texas — The New World community in southern Nacogdoches County is working to become the 37th in Texas to earn national recognition as a Firewise Community USA. Firewise communities are recognized for their efforts to reduce the risks to their residents and property from possible wildfires. New World residents, Etoile Fire Department members, and Texas Forest Service participated in a work day Dec. 4 at the remote subdivision to initiate the process of applying for national Firewise Communities status. The group also completed a community assessment and a plan that identifies risks and solutions. Jan Amen, a fire prevention specialist for Texas Forest Service, and Bill Webb, a captain for the Etoile Volunteer Fire Department, gave presentations to New World community members. “Because New World is surrounded on two sides by forest, one side by heavy pine plantation, and the fourth side by water, we decided to use the lake as their evacuation route,” Webb said. “Since the road into New World is so narrow, fire equipment coming in to New World would have a hard time with oncoming traffic. Etoile VFD will use its new rescue boat, donated by Texas Parks and Wildlife, should evacuation of New World ever become necessary.” Amen said she enjoyed working with the residents to teach them Firewise principles. “The New World residents seemed happy to have us make their property safer from the threat of fire, almost as happy as we were to help,” she said. Rich Gray, Texas Forest Service fuels mitigation coordinator, pointed out that Hurricanes Rita and Ike left a lot of debris on the ground in East Texas, creating potential for rapid wildfire spread. “We want to see as much of this cleaned up as possible to make fire less likely to happen and easier to control in the future,” Gray said. “Our crew is well trained and equipped to handle communities like New World.”Other steps to qualify as a Firewise community include observing a day each year dedicated to a Firewise project and submitting annual reports that document continuing compliance with the program.A plaque will be presented to the New World community once all the requirements are complete. If any other communities would like to learn about Firewise principles, they can visit firewise.org or call Jan Amen at 936-546-1004. Contact:Jan Amen, Fire Prevention Specialist in Lufkin936-639-8100 office, 936-546-1004 cell,jamen@tfs.tamu.edu 








