
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE EMPLOYEE WINS REGENTS AWARD









[ Print | 

 ]



Dec. 3, 2010 – COLLEGE STATION, Texas – A longtime Texas Forest Service employee was honored Thursday for his work in protecting residents across the state from potentially-deadly wildfires.Predictive Services Department Head Tom Spencer received the designation of Regents Fellow by The Texas A&M University System Board of Regents during a Dec. 2 meeting.Created in 1998, the Regents Fellow Service Award is designed to recognize employees who have made exemplary contributions to their university or agency and to the people of Texas. Spencer has done just that, spending the last 11 years developing an arsenal of tools that help the state predict when and where wildfires may occur — and ultimately protect the residents who may be in harm’s way. “It’s humbling to be recognized by your peers and by people like the Board of Regents of the Texas A&M System,” Spencer said. “I feel honored.”Spencer joined Texas Forest Service more than 30 years ago after graduating from Stephen F. Austin University with a degree in forestry. He then spent the bulk of his career working as a district forester in East Texas.That changed 11 years ago when he was asked to lead the newly-created predictive services department. Initially, he wasn’t quite sure he was ready to switch gears. It would be a big job determining the wildfire risk at any given time in any given part of the state. And it seemed like an awful long way from the Piney Woods.But he decided to go for it, he said.“It was an opportunity so I took it,” Spencer said, noting that taking the job had been rewarding. “It’s been a really good experience.”During Spencer’s tenure, his department has become a national leader in its field. Spencer was among the first to research and correlate extreme fire conditions from the 1990s to predictable drought cycles, and he’s since worked with Texas counties to keep them aware of conditions that could necessitate burn bans or fireworks restrictions.He led the creation of a statewide, automated weather station network that is linked via satellite and provides hourly updates. He also helped created several web-based maps and graphics that provide updated drought and fire behavior information to the state lawmakers, government officials, firefighters and the general public.Spencer also led the development of the Southern Wildfire Risk Assessment, a five-year project that looked at risk factors - including vegetation, fires and potential fire behavior, weather, developments and area resources - for 13 southern states including Texas.More recently, he teamed up with the National Weather Service to study firestorms, massive and deadly wildfires that occur in the Southern Plains. Much like a hurricane or tornado, firestorms are considered a true force of nature that can’t be stopped. The warning system developed by Spencer and the National Weather Service allows firefighters to focus on evacuating residents in harms way rather than waste time trying to fight a fire that likely can’t be extinguished.“Tom Spencer has the rare ability to generate accurate informational products that are easy to use and understand. Moreover, these products are based on scientific data and analysis of the highest quality,” Fire Operations Chief Mark Stanford said in the letter he wrote to nominate Spencer for the honor. “He has a sharp analytical mind and a deep belief in the capability of applied science to benefit the citizens of Texas. Tom is one of those rare people who excels in both academic and applied sciences.” Writer: Holly Huffman, 979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu 








