
	Texas Forest Service











LONGLEAF PINE TREES COULD MEAN BIG BUCKS FOR EAST TEXAS LANDOWNERS









[ Print | 

 ]



Dec. 13, 2010 — COLLEGE STATION, Texas — More than a half-million dollars in federal grant money has been earmarked for East Texas landowners interested in reforesting the region with longleaf pine trees. Providing one of the most ecologically diverse settings, the trees once covered much of East Texas and the southern United States. That changed as they were slowly replaced by other tree species over time.The U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Natural Resource Conservation Service are hoping to use a $12 million grant — including $576,500 earmarked for Texas — to restore longleaf pine forests to their former glory.“This is just a win-win situation for landowners,” Texas Forest Service Farm Bill Coordinator Shane Harrington said. “Landowners interested in the most diverse ecosystem out there can do this and get technical assistance, as well as financial assistance that can help get it established.”Provided through the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program, the money will go to landowners who implement conservation practices for existing longleaf pine ecosystems or plant new stands. More specifically, it can be used to help pay for site preparation and tree planting, prescribed burning and herbicide treatment.Individual landowners can receive up to $50,000 per year. Priority will go to landowners in Anderson, Angelina, Cherokee, Hardin, Houston, Jasper, Liberty, Montgomery, Nacogdoches, Newton, Polk, Sabine, San Augustine, San Jacinto, Shelby, Trinity, Tyler and Walker counties. However, landowners in other counties can obtain funding if they can demonstrate that longleaf pine will successfully grow there.The deadline to apply is Jan. 28, 2011.“Interest in longleaf pine is growing daily,” Harrington said. “The U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Natural Resource Conservation Service recognized that and are allowing federal money to be used to restore these habitats and ecosystems. This money is set aside solely for longleaf pine.”For more information, contact your local Texas Forest Service or Natural Resource Conservation Service office, or read the Natural Resource Conservation Service announcement.- 30 -Contact: Shane Harrington, Farm Bill Coordinator254-742-9874, sharrington@tfs.tamu.eduWriter:Holly Huffman, Communications Specialist979-458-6605, hhuffman@tfs.tamu.edu



 
|Email to a friend








