
	Texas Forest Service











EIGHT GRADUATE FROM TEXAS FOREST SERVICE LEADERSHIP PROGRAM









[ Print | 

 ]



Dec. 22, 2010 — COLLEGE STATION, Texas — Eight Texas Forest Service employees graduated this week from the agency’s first 18-month Leadership Enrichment Program.Graduates include District Forester Rich Dottellis, Regional Forester Joel Hambright, Program Coordinator Justice Jones, Program Coordinator Jason Keiningham, Regional Forester Wes Moorehead, District Forester Todd Nightingale, Forester Karen Stafford and Program Coordinator Shawn Whitley. Texas Forest Service Director Tom Boggus asked Professional Development Coordinator Stacy Overby to put together a leadership program when officials realized more than 60 percent of the agency’s top 25 leadership positions were eligible for retirement.“We had no formal process to train leaders internally, outside of what they do in their individual departments,” Overby said. A steering committee was formed, and, over a four-month period, the group established a program to train those identified as potential future Texas Forest Service leaders.Leadership Enrichment Program participants toured portions of Texas, Montana and Michigan, learning about their personal leadership style and effective leadership practices, in addition to attending supervisory classes and participating in team-based projects. Participants represented various geographical regions and divisions of Texas Forest Service. Whitley said it gave him a wider perspective of the agency and what it does.“This program is very important, and I think it’s vital to our continued success,” he said. “I was able to develop some good leadership skills. Our group became really close. We started working together more closely.”Overby said those selected for the program have demonstrated practical, social, emotional, cultural and moral intelligence. “I’m very impressed with this group,” he said. A new class is scheduled to be selected in March. Find out more about the Leadership Enrichment Program. Editor’s note: Photo available upon request. Contact:Stacy Overby, Leadership Enrichment Program Coordinator979-458-6694, soverby@tfs.tamu.edu Writer: April Saginor, Communications Specialist979-458-6619 office, 979-255-0591 cell, asaginor@tfs.tamu.edu 








