ARIZONA CONSERVATIVE - BlogBlogImage GalleryAboutVideosPollsARIZONA CONSERVATIVEArizona's Conservative Voice Since 2003BlogRSS
		

WHY SHOULDN'T THE PRESIDENT'S JOB BE SAVED?
9/9/2011 4:41:37 PM

President's Jobs Speech Wows Congress

By John Semmens: Semi-News — A Satirical Look at Recent News

President Obama’s widely anticipated speech before a joint session of Congress on Thursday stunned and amazed his erstwhile political opponents.
“Until I heard it from his own lips I never realized how mistaken the GOP plans to tear up all the roads and burn down all the schools were,” said House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va). “And now that I know the president’s jobs plan is endorsed by the Teamsters’ Jimmy Hoffa and the AFL-CIO’s Richard Trumka, well, let’s just say that my eyes have really been opened.”
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky) admitted that he was skeptical at first. “You know, in a way, we’ve been over this ground before,” McConnell pointed out. “Appropriating hundreds of billions to try to stimulate the economy has been the policy of the current Administration since it took office. Just because it hasn’t worked so far doesn’t necessarily prove it could never work. I’ve got to give him credit for consistency.”
House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) focused on the human element. “It’s one thing to get caught up in the statistics of millions without jobs—that’s bad enough,” Boehner observed. “But when I consider that the fate of one specific individual hangs in the balance I start to get all teary-eyed. If we don’t get this thing turned around, and quick, Barack himself could lose his job next year. I have to ask myself, if government action can save just one job why shouldn’t it be the president’s?”

More
A Satirical Look at Recent News
John Semmens Archives
More John Semmens’ Archives

0 comments



SPEAKERS FOR AZ RIGHT TO LIFE STATE CONFERENCE
9/9/2011 1:57:26 PM

Prominent Speakers To Address Arizona Right to Life State Conference

A nationally recognized medical expert and a prominent leader with National Right to Life will speak at the Arizona Right to Life annual state conference in Scottsdale Sept. 24.


Steven Zielinski, M.D., J.D., a long-time pro-life activist and nationally recognized medical expert, will cover the latest fetal pain research, both scientifically and as a political issue. Concepts of fetal consciousness and the consequences of uncontrolled pain during the pre-natal and post-natal period will also be covered. 

Dr. Zielinski also promises to divulge the secret reason that pro-choice activists will not challenge the "Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act." 

 
Jennifer Popik, J.D., legislative counsel at the Robert Powell Center for Medical Ethics at National Right to Life, will share an eye-opening outlook on the reality of Obamacare and its proposed rationing of care. Offering vital information and tools to help "decode" the confusing language of these new policies, this session will present key areas of concern and include time for questions and answers. 

Additional Information
Friday, September 23, 2011
1pm-5pm



Post Abortion Care for pastors, ministers, & those who work in ministry. Click for session descriptions. Facilitated by Rachel’s Vineyard


Life Issues in the Legal Sphere CLE for attorneys. Click for session descriptions, session schedule & speaker bios. Sponsored by the Alliance Defense Fund


Pro-life Nonprofit Management for partner organization staff and volunteers.


Saturday, September 24, 2011
8:30am-4:30pm



General sessions with Melissa Ohden and Julia Holcomb


Sixteen breakout sessions on today’s hot-button topics and issues. Click for session descriptions, session schedule & speaker bios.


Pro-life Volunteer Faire - Want to get involved? Check out Arizona’s top pro-life organizations and find out how you can help


Students for Life Southwest Regional Meeting – Attend special breakout sessions designed just for students


General Sessions
Featuring the story of two abortion survivors: One as the mother. The other as the baby.
Julia Holcomb 
For one of the very first times, Julia Holcomb breaks her 30-year silence to speak out about life with Aerosmith rock star and American Idol judge, Steven Tyler, and the abortion of their 20-week-old son.
Hear her story as Tyler’s legal ward and live-in girlfriend, the abortion that devastated her soul, and the miracle of life she ultimately discovered.
Melissa Ohden 
Melissa is the survivor of a failed saline infusion abortion. Despite initial concerns regarding her future after surviving the attempt to end her life, Melissa has not only survived but has thrived and is now an outspoken proponent for life.
Melissa’s story, and her life, is so much more than one of survival. You won’t want to miss her remarkable presentation.
Register Here

Official Conference Twitter Hashtag is #azrtl2011    

Become a Friend of The Arizona Conservative on Facebook

0 comments



OBAMA OPTS FOR REPUBLICAN PLAN TO IMPROVE HIS POPULARITY
9/9/2011 1:43:44 PM

Desperate President Pushes Republican Cong. Schweikert's Plan

You know President Obama is reading his disapproval polling when he does something that makes good fiscal sense!

As part of his new jobs package, President Obama endorsed a GOP proposal that would exempt smaller companies that are planning to sell public shares from registering with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In his Thursday speech, Obama said his plan would “cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public.”
Specifically, the administration is calling for companies that plan to sell up to $50 million in shares as part of a public offering to be exempt from registering with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Current law exempts companies that manage up to $5 million.
The proposal echoes a bill (HR 1070) authored by Rep. David Schweikert, R-Ariz., which was approved by the House Financial Services Committee by voice vote in June.
Schweikert said today he is pleased to receive the president’s support for the proposal, and he said it should give the measure a boost.
“The White House does get some credit for looking at . . . the Republican jobs agenda that we are moving through Financial Services,” he said. “We’re hoping this is one of the good ideas that can become law fairly soon.”
Schweikert said his bill was needed because it has becoming increasingly costly to bring a small company public, and he said it would help reverse “the collapse of our [initial public offering] markets in this country.”
He added that making it easier for companies to be traded on public exchanges would in turn spur job creation.
“We know when companies go public, that is their peak of their hiring,” said Schweikert. “With new capitalization, they buy new capital equipment and they hire employees.”
The administration agrees, arguing in its factsheet for the jobs plan, “this will make it easier for entrepreneurs to raise capital and create jobs.”
Schweikert said he did not know when his bill might see action on the House floor. He said a bipartisan Senate companion measure is expected to be introduced in the coming weeks.

0 comments



PERRY WINS DEBATE AT REAGAN LIBRARY
9/7/2011 8:37:19 PM

Conservative Leader Calls Debate for Gov. Perry

Richard A. Viguerie, Chairman of ConservativeHQ.com, said Gov. Rick Perry clearly won tonight's debate between Republican presidential candidates at the Reagan Library in Simi Valley, California: 

 
"No one knocked Rick Perry off his perch tonight.

 
"There are two principle tests a candidate must pass to become the Republican nominee in 2012.
 

"First, the candidate must be seen to be a conservative. Second, the candidate must convince Republican primary voters that he or she can beat President Obama.
 

"When Governor Perry announced his candidacy, I said he was the only candidate who met both tests.
 

"There were eight candidates on the stage tonight. To win tonight's debate, one of the other GOP contenders had to meet those two tests--be seen as a conservative and show he or she can beat Obama. And the person had to show he or she can do those two things better than Rick Perry.
 

"Each of the candidates had their moments and each showed they had a constituency, but none of the other candidates scaled that tall mountain and knocked Perry out of the front runner's role."

0 comments



NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR CIVIL DISCOURSE DOES NOTHING AMID HATEFUL RHETORIC
9/5/2011 8:33:17 PM

To the National Institute for Civil Discourse, University of Arizona:
 
From The Arizona Conservative
 
Our Second Report on Uncivil Discourse from the Left:
 
Union Boss Jimmy Hoffa:
 
Teamsters President Jimmy Hoffa had some profane, combative words for Republicans while warming up the crowd for President Obama in Detroit, Michigan on Monday.

"We got to keep an eye on the battle that we face: The war on workers. And you see it everywhere, it is the Tea Party. And you know, there is only one way to beat and win that war. The one thing about working people is we like a good fight. And you know what? They've got a war, they got a war with us and there's only going to be one winner. It's going to be the workers of Michigan, and America. We're going to win that war."

"President Obama, this is your army. We are ready to march. Let's take these son of bitches out and give America back to an America where we belong," Hoffa added.
 
Vice-President Joe Biden:

Members of the Tea Party "acted like terrorists," The word was used by several Democrats in Congress.

Biden told Democratic lawmakers that the deal would take away the tea party’s “weapon of mass destruction” — the threat of a default on U.S. debt obligations. 

Democrat Congressman Mike Doyle:

We have negotiated with terrorists. This small group of terrorists (the Tea Party) have made it impossible to spend any money.” 

Tina Brown, Newsweek magazine:

The Party members are “suicide bombers.”

Fareed Zakaria, CNN: 

“What they‘re (Tea Party) saying is we’ll blow up the country if you don’t listen to us.”

Maureen Dowd, New York Times:

Compared Tea Party to “Washington chainsaw massacre” perpetrators.

Chris Matthews, MSNBC:

Called Tea Party Muslim “Wahhabis,” inferring terrorists.

Democrat Congressman Andre Carson:

“Some of these folks in Congress (conservatives) right now would love to see us as second-class citizens. Some of them in Congress right now with this Tea Party movement would love to see you and me — I’m sorry, Tamron [town hall moderator Tamron Hall from MSNBC] — hanging on a tree.”

Mark Shields, PBS:

Tea Party “Use it as a non-negotiable terrorist demand.”

Tom Friedman, New York Times:

“If sane Republicans do not stand up to this Hezbollah faction in their midst, the Tea Party will take the G.O.P. on a suicide mission.”

Paul Krugman, New York Times:

“… basically the Republicans said, 'We'll blow up the world economy unless you give us exactly what we want.'”

NICD, it’s high time you earned your keep, called out the worst of the worst, and insisted on civil discourse. Amid your silence and inactivity, the inflammatory rhetoric from the Left grows more heated and outrageous by the day.

0 comments



MARICOPA COUNTY REPUBLICANS DENOUNCE ATTEMPT TO DISBAR THOMAS
9/4/2011 7:29:58 PM

Maricopa County GOP Executive Guidance Committee Resolution Denouncing State Bar Investigation of Andrew Thomas and Others
 
WHEREAS, former Maricopa County Attorney Andrew Thomas and Sheriff Joe Arpaio have been leaders in the fight to crack down on illegal immigration, taking on activist judges who tried to thwart Proposition 100 (no bail for illegal immigrants who commit serious crimes), and investigating corruption at the county level;

WHEREAS, in a politically motivated move due to its opposition to Arpaio's and Thomas's policies, the State Bar of Arizona, which is under the control of liberal attorneys and criminal defense attorneys, is attempting to take the license to practice law from Andrew Thomas, one of his former prosecutors Lisa Aubuchon, and discipline a third former prosecutor, Rachel Alexander;

WHEREAS, even a columnist for the liberal Arizona Republic, Robert Robb, has denounced the Bar's investigation, writing about the Bar's investigation, "Many of the alleged ethical violations are grounded in the claim that Thomas acted in bad faith for political retaliation. I doubt the evidence will clearly establish that."
 

WHEREAS, the State Bar of Arizona has a history of refusing to take action against those who agree with their political philosophy 

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Maricopa County Republican Executive Guidance Committee that it demand the State Bar drop the baseless and politically motivated investigation into Andrew Thomas, Lisa Aubuchon and Rachel Alexander.

FURTHER, we, the members of the Maricopa County Republican Executive Guidance Committee, commend Andrew Thomas for his efforts as County Attorney combating illegal immigration and corruption;

ADDITIONALLY, we, the members of the Maricopa County Republican Executive Guidance Committee, demand that the State Bar refrain from any future politically motivated investigations of attorneys due to its inherent left wing bias.

0 comments



PRESIDENT MIFFED
9/2/2011 5:19:55 PM

Obama Miffed over Date Rebuff

By John Semmens: Semi-News — A Satirical Look at Recent News 

House Speaker John Boehner’s rejection of President Obama’s request to speak to Congress on September 7 became the focus of the president’s latest plea for campaign donations. Just a few hours after Boehner declined the date and suggested a September 8 alternative, the President’s campaign sent an e-mail to supporters.
“I am the leader of the free world,” Obama contended. “Being rebuffed by Congress does untold damage to my image. This can only harm my ability to effect the transformation for which I was elected to accomplish in 2008. Harming the President like this—some might call it treason.”
The president also hinted that Boehner’s action might be unconstitutional. “Not only was the Republicans’ refusal rude and insensitive—it showed that Boehner doesn’t really care about hurting my feelings—it was also a cruel and unusual punishment. No other president has ever been treated this way. Now, as a Constitutional scholar, I know that ‘cruel and unusual punishment’ is against it.”
The e-mail recipients were asked to give generously in order “to prevent the enemies of democracy from thwarting our drive toward the social justice we pledged to wreak upon America.”
In related news, Vice-President Joe Biden rejected contentions that a long string of policy failures may indicate that President Obama lacks the smarts to handle the job.
 
“There’s no question in my mind that Barack is the brightest guy we’ve ever had as a president,” Biden said. As proof, Biden cited “all the times he’s beaten me at ‘tic-tac-toe.’ It doesn’t matter whether he has the ‘Xs’ or ‘Os.’ He beats me every time. That’s the kind of dominating brilliance this country needs from its leadership.”

More
 
A Satirical Look at Recent News
John Semmens Archives
More John Semmens’ Archives0 comments



PALIN'S LONG-AWAITED SPEECH
9/2/2011 3:54:33 PM

Palin to Address 'Compromised Political Class' in Tomorrow's Iowa Speech

Sources with knowledge of Sarah Palin’s prepared remarks tell National Review Online that the former Alaska governor will castigate Washington’s “compromised political class” when she addresses a tea-party rally in Iowa this weekend. Palin, sources say, will not use the venue to launch a presidential campaign. Instead, Palin will “offer a serious critique of crony capitalism and President Obama’s economic record.”



1 comments



LET'S TALK IT OVER
9/2/2011 3:51:26 PM

Republicans to Sponsor Debate in Arizona

Governor Jan Brewer just announced the Republican National Committee is sponsoring a presidential candidates' debate in Arizona and made these remarks:

“I’m thrilled today to learn that Arizona has preliminarily been awarded a presidential debate sanctioned by the Republican National Committee. This is a tremendous opportunity, as Arizona will be one of just a handful of states to play host to an RNC debate. Additionally, I’m hopeful this debate will make certain that the major presidential candidates travel to Arizona, speak with our voters and address issues unique to the Southwest. 

“Arizona is a battleground for critical issues ranging from illegal immigration to Medicaid reform and the housing crisis. Our voters deserve to hear the presidential candidates speak to these and other important matters.
“Just as important as what I’m announcing today is what I’m not announcing: a formal date for Arizona’s Presidential Preference Election. I will for the time being keep my options open.

“With whatever date I choose, my goal remains the same as ever: To provide Arizona voters the biggest possible platform with which to impact the presidential nomination process. In such a critical election, this is a decision that is owed careful consideration.” 

0 comments



GIFFORDS' OFFICE NEEDS TO ADDRESS HER FUTURE
8/27/2011 8:22:48 AM

8th Congressional District Needs Representation; Time for Giffords' Office to Tell Us Her Condition and Plans

We've all been encouraged by Cong. Gabby Giffords' recovery. Though we don't know the full extent of her medical condition.

Meanwhile, the 8th congressional district of Arizona has gone without representation for nearly eight months since the tragic shootings in Tucson. Save one brief appearance by a frail Giffords to cast a vote in favor of raising the debt ceiling. The people in Southeastern Arizona need representation lest they be disenfranchised.

Giffords' office needs to communicate her plans to the public now. Does she plan to come back soon? Is she physically able to come back, to perform the active duties of a congressman? These are reasonable questions and the public has a right to know. But her campaign director isn't returning calls. If she can't continue anymore, there should be a special election to fill the seat, something the Democrats are no doubt trying to forestall.

No one can be accused of being impatient, not Arizona Sen. Frank Antenori, a Republican considering a run. “If she is capable and has the physical ability to represent the district, I think she would be a formidable — almost unbeatable — foe,” Antenori said. He also said he probably won't run for Congress next year if Giffords seeks re-election.

Not Anthony Prowell, a Democrat and an elementary teacher in Tucson. He plans to run for Congress because “so many people that you talk to now say that there’s nobody representing the average working person.”

Prowell informed the local Democrat party and Giffords' office of his intentions, and that did not go over well. Democrats are furious with him. How dare he challenge Giffords after what she's been through?

In fact it made Prowell start thinking about running for Congress on the Green Party ticket. If he persists with a Democrat Party run, he may have difficulty getting enough signatures to qualify for the 2012 primary election. 

Come primary campaign season next year, you can bet your bottom dollar the Democrats will villify anyone who runs against Giffords -- if she is well enough to run -- Republican, Green, Independent, anyone at all. It hasn't reached the Wellstone fever pitch yet, but it could. After Minnesota Sen. Paul Wellstone died in a plane crash a few years ago, his supporters begged and pleaded with Republican Norm Coleman to withdraw as a candidate and concede the race to "the memory of Paul." Coleman eventually defeated replacement candidate Walter Mondale.

1 comments



OBAMA VACATION SPENDING SPREE JUSTIFIED
8/27/2011 8:17:36 AM

Administration Says First Family's Lavish Vacations Justified

By John Semmens: Semi-News — A Satirical Look at Recent News 

It is estimated that the Obama family has racked up $10 million worth of vacation expenses since Barack entered the White House. While critics have branded this as extravagant, especially in light of how poorly the economy is doing, the regime, itself, sees it differently.
“Might I remind everyone that the key to economic recovery for this country is to maintain high levels of spending,” said Press Secretary Jay Carney. “Sure, the President might garner a few ‘brownie points’ with uninformed voters by adopting a counterproductive stance of frugality, but he has courageously chosen to set an example that he hopes others will follow.”
First Lady, Michelle Obama argued that “the $10 million doesn’t get us even for all Barack and I have done for this country. With our abilities we could’ve easily made several times as much if he hadn’t been forced to become President. So, by any reasonable accounting, we’re still in the hole. People have no right to criticize the little we’ve taken in return for our sacrifices.”

More
 
A Satirical Look at Recent News
John Semmens Archives
More John Semmens’ Archives

 0 comments



STAGGERING CRIMINAL RECORD OF ILLEGAL ALIENS
8/21/2011 6:45:09 PM

Illegal Alien Criminal Record Highly Alarming

In the wake of President Obama's executive order giving protection for illegal aliens comes a 2007 Government Accountability Office study of a sample population of 55,322 illegal aliens showing an alarming pattern of repeat crime. Analysts discovered that:


* They were arrested at least a total of 459,614 times, averaging about 8 arrests per illegal alien. Nearly all had more than one arrest. Thirty-eight percent (about 21,000) had between 2 and 5 arrests, 32 percent (about 18,000) had between 6 and 10 arrests, and 26 percent (about 15,000) had 11 or more arrests. Most of the arrests occurred after 1990.

* They were arrested for a total of about 700,000 criminal offenses, averaging about 13 offenses per illegal alien. One arrest incident may include multiple offenses, a fact that explains why there are nearly one and half times more offenses than arrests.

* Almost all of these illegal aliens were arrested for more than 1 offense. Slightly more than half of the 55,322 illegal aliens had between 2 and 10 offenses. About 45 percent of all offenses were drug or immigration offenses. About 15 percent were property-related offenses such as burglary, larceny-theft, motor vehicle theft, and property damage. About 12 percent were for violent offenses such as murder, robbery, assault, and sex-related crimes. The balance was for such other offenses as traffic violations, including driving under the influence; fraud--including forgery and counterfeiting; weapons violations; and obstruction of justice.

* Eighty percent of all arrests occurred in three states--California, Texas, and Arizona. Specifically, about 58 percent of all arrests occurred in California, 14 percent in Texas, and 8 percent in Arizona.
Meanwhile, Barbara Coe, an Internet political activist and blogger, on Saturday reported on an FBI crime study that also shows heavy illegal alien involvement in criminal activity:

* 83% of warrants for murder in Phoenix are for illegal aliens.

* 86% of warrants for murder in Albuquerque are for illegal aliens. 

* 75% of those on the most wanted list in Los Angeles , Phoenix and Albuquerque are illegal aliens. 

* 24.9% of all inmates in California detention centers are Mexican nationals.

* 40.1% of all inmates in Arizona detention centers are Mexican nationals.

* 48.2% of all inmates in New Mexico detention centers are Mexican nationals. 

* 29% (630,000) convicted illegal alien felons fill our state and Federal prisons at a cost of $1.6 billion annually. 

* 53% plus of all investigated burglaries reported in California, New Mexico, Nevada, Arizona and Texas are perpetrated by illegal aliens. 

* 50% plus of all gang members in Los Angeles are illegal aliens. 

* 71% plus of all apprehended cars stolen in 2005 in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada and California were stolen by Illegal aliens or "transport coyotes." 

* 47% of cited/stopped drivers in California have no license, no insurance and no registration for the vehicle. Of that 47%, 92% are illegal aliens.

* 63% of cited/stopped drivers in Arizona have no license, no insurance and no registration for the vehicle. Of that 63%, 97% are illegal aliens. 

* 66% of cited/stopped drivers in New Mexico have no license, no insurance and no registration for the vehicle. Of that 66% 98% are illegal aliens. 

* 380,000 plus "anchor babies" were born in the US to illegal alien parents in just one year, making 380,000 babies automatically US citizens. 

Astounding and frightening. We must protect our borders and our citizens.

0 comments



OBAMA'S SELF PITY TOUR
8/20/2011 9:28:21 AM


Obama Compares Self to Lincoln

By John Semmens: Semi-News — A Satirical Look at Recent News 
President Obama pushed his Midwest “self pity” tour into new ground this past week with his claim that he has it harder than President Lincoln did.
“Everyone thinks that Lincoln had it tough,” Obama said. “But let’s not forget that his opposition was confined to one region of the country. Secessionists only controlled 11 states in the South. Today, I’m beset from all sides. Tea Party extremists operate in every state and control the government in a majority of them. We live in perilous times. The fate of the nation is at stake.”
The president said he is “waiting for those who want to destroy America to make their fatal ‘Fort Sumter mistake’—the one where they fire the ‘first shot’ that will enable me to rally loyal Americans to fight this threat to our way of life. Maybe it’ll be a state seceding from Obamacare. Maybe it’ll be the nomination of a person who accuses an official of the Government of treason. Whatever and whenever it is, I will not hesitate to use my authority to put down our nation’s enemies.”
Several Civil War historians characterized President Obama’s remarks as “laughable,” “ludicrous,” and “dangerous,” but did so anonymously for “fear on ending up on the President’s list of reputed enemies.” “Remember, Lincoln had a lot of his critics arrested,” one professor observed. “It looks like Obama is setting himself up to do the same.”
In related news, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney chastised Republican presidential candidate Texas Governor Rick Perry for implying that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke’s promise to print as much money as we have to between now and 2013 might be treasonous. “I would remind Governor Perry that the FBI reports to the president, not to him,” Carney pointed out. “It is the president who decides who will or won’t be arrested for treason.”

More

A Satirical Look at Recent News
John Semmens Archives
More John Semmens’ Archives
0 comments



OBAMA ACTS LIKE HE'S ABOVE THE LAW
8/19/2011 2:11:55 PM

Gov. Brewer: Obama Acts Like He's Above Law on Immigration


By Martin Gould, Newsmax

Republicans are attacking President Barack Obama for acting like a “king that is above the law” in deciding to pick and choose which illegal aliens to deport.

“The Obama administration cannot get its amnesty schemes through Congress, so now it has resorted to implementing its plans via executive fiat,” said Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer.

“We need to remind President Obama that we elected a president that serves beneath the law and did not anoint a king that is above the law.”

Joining her criticisms were two other border-state Republicans, Reps. Michael McCaul and Lamar Smith of Texas.

“It’s just the latest attempt by this president to bypass the intended legislative process when he does not get his way,” McCaul said.

Smith said, “The Obama administration should enforce immigration laws, not look for ways to ignore them."

And Florida Rep. Allen West jumped into the fray, too, calling for a House investigation into the guidelines. In an exclusive interview with Newsmax.TV, he accused Obama of “shredding the Constitution” with the new guidelines. “It is a form of amnesty and it does go against our Constitution and it very much concerns me because now we are rewarding people for an illegal activity,” he said.

“Think about the strain that is going to come on the types of services and things that we have to provide,” West added, saying aliens are getting a free pass.

The plan, called Secure Communities was first announced in June in an agency memo from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton. But battle lines are being drawn only now following a letter Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano sent Democratic senators outlining its plans.

A posting on the ICE website calls it a “simple and common sense way to carry out ICE's priorities,” as it is designed to focus deportation efforts on “criminal aliens, those who pose a threat to public safety and repeat immigration law violators.”

But critics say it is too much like the stalled DREAM Act, a Democratic plan that would have given illegals a path to U.S. citizenship. 

“The plan amounts to backdoor amnesty for hundreds of thousands — if not millions — of illegal aliens,” said Brewer, who succeeded Napolitano in the governor’s office in Phoenix.

“The president is encouraging more illegal immigration at the exact moment we need federal focus on border security.”

Brewer pointed to a speech Obama made to the Hispanic civil rights group, the National Council of La Raza, in Washington on July 25, in which he rejected the idea of imposing immigration reform without reference to Congress.

“He said, ‘Now, I know some people want me to bypass Congress and change the laws on my own. And, believe me, right now dealing with Congress, the idea of doing things on my own is very tempting. But that’s not how our system works. That’s not how our democracy functions. That’s not how our Constitution is written.’

“President Obama got it right last month and got it really wrong today,” Brewer said. “Over the next 15 months I’m certain we’ll hear a lot of talk from the Obama administration about its concern for border security. Those of us who truly care about the rule of law will remember the president’s actions.”
Under the plan, Homeland Security and the Justice Department will review all deportation cases to see whether they meet 19 different criteria. About 300,000 deportation cases now under consideration will be included, she said.

Among factors that would be considered favorably are if the potential deportee has been in the United States since childhood, whether they have sought higher education or have served in the military and whether they are caregivers.

The White House insists that the plan is not a path to citizenship or permanent legal status or an amnesty. Cecilia Munoz, the White House’s intergovernmental affairs director, wrote on the White House blog that with an estimated 10 million people in the country illegally, limited resources should be focused on deporting “people who have been convicted of crimes or pose a security risk.”

Munoz said that, since 2008, there has been a 70 percent increase in the number of deportations of people with criminal records while the number of people deported who have no record has gone down.

Jessica Vaughan, policy studies director at the Center for Immigration Studies, said, “The message is that as long as you keep your nose clean and do not commit a serious crime, then you don’t have to worry about immigration law enforcement. That’s a pretty strong incentive to stick around.

“It really is attempting to achieve by executive fiat what the Congress won’t do and the American people don’t want, and that really requires a lot of audacity.”



 1 comments



INVESTIGATION AHEAD FOR OBAMA?
8/19/2011 10:57:44 AM

Sheriff Joe Promises to Investigate Obama Birth Certificate
 
World Net Daily reports …
 
At the request of Tea Party leaders in Arizona, famed Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio has promised to investigate the validity of Barack Obama's purported long-form birth certificate in a determination of the president's eligibility for the county's 2012 election ballot. 

Tea party leaders in Surprise met with Arpaio and WND senior reporter Jerome Corsi Thursday morning to express concern that a fake birth certificate would be used to document the president's eligibility to run in Maricopa County, where Arpaio is the chief law enforcement officer. 

Arpaio's tough crackdown on illegal immigration has made him a national figure. 

At a one-hour meeting in Arpaio's office, the tea party leaders presented the sheriff with a petition that was drafted after a speech by Corsi the previous night. 

Corsi,  author of a best-selling book challenging Obama's eligibility, "Where's the Birth Certificate?" presented evidence from numerous computer-imaging specialists who believe the document presented by the White House April 27 is not authentic. 

0 comments



GREAT DAY FOR HUMAN LIFE IN ARIZONA
8/18/2011 5:53:56 PM

Incredibly Great News for Arizona: Planned Parenthood Closing 7 Abortion Mills

It’s shameful that Arizona women had to wait until 2011, but they will now be provided full disclosure on the risks of abortion.

The Arizona legislature passed an informed consent law in 2009 to assure protections, but Planned Parenthood filed lawsuits in state and federal courts to block them. Abortion is the least regulated invasive surgery in America, and its providers put profits above the health and well-being of pregnant women. 

A federal court ruled for women and against Planned Parenthood. But a retired, leftist judge from the East Coast ruled against the protective laws in state court. He put the laws on hold, pending appeal.

Just a few days ago, the Arizona Court of Appeals ruled against Planned Parenthood. 

Planned Parenthood then announced it will cease killing pre-born babies at seven of its 13 locations in Arizona. This is the best thing that has happened in the Grand Canyon State since statehood.

Cathi Herrod, president of the Center for Arizona Policy, annually lobbies for legislation protecting human life. Today she wrote:

“For years, life advocates at the legislature have been saying that Arizona women deserve better than the substandard care Planned Parenthood provides.

“The fact that Planned Parenthood can’t find doctors to work at their clinics is telling. Caring healthcare professionals, particularly doctors, don’t want to be a part of an industry that harms women and takes the lives of preborn children.”

Here’s what the now-freed laws will accomplish:

• Require women to have an in-person "informed consent" consultation at least 24 hours in advance with the physician who will be performing the procedure. Under the injunction, qualified staff members were able to provide women with the information over the phone.

• Require that minors get a notarized statement of parental consent before getting an abortion. Parental consent is currently required, but the statement doesn't have to be notarized.

• Allow pharmacists and other health-care professionals to refuse to provide emergency contraception for religious or moral reasons.

• Require that physicians alone -- and not nurse practitioners or midwives -- be allowed to perform surgical abortions.

Herrod said: “Thanks to the many pregnancy care centers throughout our state, women in rural Arizona will be able to find the support they need from loving individuals.”

The appeals court victory also lessens the likelihood that abortionists will succeed in their latest lawsuit against laws passed earlier this year. Planned Parenthood filed suit last month to try to stop laws passed this year requiring chemical abortions to be held to the same standards as surgical abortions, and prohibiting nurse practitioners from performing medication abortions.

May Arizona’s leaders continue to carve out a culture of life.
1 comments



PAWLENTY OUT; STRATEGY IS CLEAR IN PRESIDENTIAL SWEEPSTAKES
8/14/2011 1:34:38 PM

A Formula for Effective, Commonsense Leadership in America

Okay, things are starting to shake loose. After running at the back of the pack of GOP presidential candidates for months, former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty has pulled out. And Texas Governor Rick Perry has entered the competition.

Perry's arrival will shake things up in the new polling to come this week. Pawlenty's meager support will disperse among the still-sizable field.

More of the bottom feeders -- Huntsman, Paul, Gingrich, Cain, Santorum, and others -- need to pull out soon. 

What is needed is for two -- three if Sarah Palin enters the fray -- strong conservative candidates to compete with RINO Mitt Romney for the nomination. The formula for new, effective, responsible leadership in America needs to whittle down to Perry, Michele Bachmann and possibly Palin to compete for one final conservative berth oppose Romney. 

Once all the other conservatives, RINOs and moderates are out of the way, the emerging conservative should beat Romeny for the nomination next summer. Or maybe beforehand.

If there are two or three conservatives and Romney still in the hunt next May or June, the lesser-performing conservatives will need to do what is best for the country and step aside for the other to take out Romney in remaining primaries and sew up the nomination.

With Obama's support sinking among almost all demographics, the emerging Republican candidate should be able to beat him in November 2012. But it can't be Romney or anyone else who is soft on the issues that matter to Americans.

Obama and the Socialists have taken America down a dark, destructive path, and it is high time for someone with commonsense, conventional wisdom on fiscal and social matters to turn this country around again.

 0 comments



PRESIDENT URGES VOTER TO REBUKE REPUBLICANS
8/12/2011 7:11:45 PM

President Urges Voter to Rebuke Republicans for Thwarting His Will

By John Semmens: Semi-News — A Satirical Look at Recent News 

On the heels of the nation’s first ever credit downgrade, an angry President Obama embarked upon a campaign tour aimed at focusing voters’ wrath at what he dubbed the GOP’s “economic terrorism.”

“Opposition to my leadership imperils the very existence of the nation,” Obama asserted. “Voters must send a message to all the members of Congress that refusal to accommodate themselves to my program of transformational change won’t be tolerated.”

House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) said he would be willing to consider accommodating the president’s program if he knew what it was. “The most frustrating thing about the debt-ceiling negotiations is that the president never put forward a single new idea for reducing our nation’s debt,” Boehner complained. “Even now, after our credit rating has been downgraded, all he has to offer is more of the same wasteful spending that got us into the mess.”

House Majority Leader, Eric Cantor (R-Va) called the president’s push for higher taxes and more regulations a recipe for disaster. “Both of these policies raise the cost of doing business,” Cantor pointed out. “If it costs more to do business, less business will be done. Less business being done means fewer jobs and less tax revenue. This would only worsen the country’s economic and financial problems.”

The president warned voters “not to fall for the Republicans’ ‘siren song’ of economic growth as the answer to all our ills. Are jobs really more important than a cleaner environment? Should prosperity be preferred to a broader equality? Shouldn’t we all be willing to bear the burdens of shared sacrifice for a future that is cleaner and fairer?”

More


A Satirical Look at Recent News
John Semmens Archives
More John Semmens’ Archives

0 comments



OBAMACARE IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL!
8/12/2011 1:51:11 PM

Appeals Court: ObamaCare UNCONSTITUTIONAL!

"ObamaCare" -- President Barack Obama's health care law -- suffered a huge setback in Atlanta today when the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit declared it unconstitutional to require all Americans to buy insurance or face a penalty.

A three-judge panel of the appeals court called it “an unprecedented exercise of congressional power.”
The Appeals Court , found that Congress exceeded its authority by requiring Americans to buy coverage, but also reversed a lower court decision that threw out the entire healthcare law.
The legality of the individual mandate, which was supposed to take effect in 2014, is ultimately headed for the U.S. Supreme Court.

In January, a federal judge in Florida issued a ruling in what is the largest lawsuit filed against the Obamacare health care law. U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson said the individual mandate is unconstitutional and, therefore, the entire law is as well. Obama appealed, leading to today's decision.

Judge Vinson ruled: “Because the individual mandate is unconstitutional and not severable, the entire Act must be declared void. This has been a difficult decision to reach, and I am aware that it will have indeterminable implications. At a time when there is virtually unanimous agreement that health care reform is needed in this country, it is hard to invalidate and strike down a statute titled ‘The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.’”
“Regardless of how laudable its attempts may have been to accomplish these goals in passing the act, Congress must operate within the bounds established by the Constitution,” the judge wrote. “This case is not about whether the Act is wise or unwise legislation. It is about the Constitutional role of the federal government.”
“Congress exceeded the bounds of its authority in passing the Act with individual mandate,” he added.
Every leading pro-life organization opposed Obamacare over the abortion funding and rationing concerns.

 4 comments



AZ APPEALS COURT PROTECTS WOMEN FROM PLANNED PARENTHOOD ATTACK
8/11/2011 7:05:30 PM

AZ Appeals Court Upholds Laws Protecting Women, Rejecting Planned Parenthood Attack

The Arizona Court of Appeals today found Arizona’s Abortion Consent Act constitutional and lifted a judge’s order that had stalled its implementation after Planned Parenthood filed suit. In March of last year, ADF--together with the Center for Arizona Policy, the Bioethics Defense Fund, and the Life Legal Defense Foundation--appealed the judge’s order, which tied up new state laws designed to protect the health and safety of pregnant women and their preborn children.

“If Planned Parenthood truly cared about what’s best for women, they wouldn’t be repeatedly going to court around the nation to stop laws that allow women to make fully informed choices,” said ADF Senior Counsel Steven H. Aden, who argued before the Court of Appeals on June 14. “The court ruled rightly in this case in rejecting the arguments of the nation’s largest purveyor of abortion. The protection of women is not unconstitutional.”

“We hold that the statutes at issue would withstand federal constitutional scrutiny,” the Court of Appeals wrote in its 3-0 opinion, “and that the Arizona Constitution--to the extent it protects abortion rights at all--offers no greater protection than the federal constitution with respect to the regulations at issue in this case…. We hold that the statutes affected by the preliminary injunction are constitutional, and we therefore vacate the injunction in its entirety.”

The Arizona Abortion Consent Act prohibits non-physicians from performing surgical abortions, provides for women to receive full and accurate information at least 24 hours before an abortion, protects health care workers who object to performing or facilitating abortions, and requires notarized parental consent for minors seeking abortions. The legislation also ensures that women receive information on abortion alternatives, long-term medical risks, and the probable gestational age of the preborn child at the time of the requested abortion.

“Everyone deserves full and accurate information before undergoing any medical procedure,” said Center for Arizona Policy Legal Counsel Deborah Sheasby, co-counsel and one of more than 2,000 attorneys in the ADF alliance. “These types of protections have been repeatedly upheld and are overwhelmingly supported by the public.”

The U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly upheld 24-hour waiting periods, and multiple polls have found overwhelming public support for protections like those included in Arizona’s act.

The appeal in the case, Planned Parenthood Arizona v. Horne, was filed on behalf of legislators, doctors, and numerous organizations who all sought to intervene in the case to defend the act’s protections. The Court of Appeals granted intervention to most of the parties.
1 comments


239 items total

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
... 
12 


html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"
LifeBordersGovt Medical RationingMarriageEnvironmentEconomyElectionsObamaMcCainFaithArizona GovernorCongressLegislatureTea Party MovementFamilyFar LeftGOPJeff FlakeArizonaMoralityMediaCultureEducationHomosexualitySemi-NewsSocialismApril, 2010May, 2010June, 2010July, 2010August, 2010September, 2010October, 2010November, 2010December, 2010January, 2011February, 2011March, 2011April, 2011May, 2011June, 2011July, 2011August, 2011September, 2011
BlogImage GalleryAboutVideosPollsArizona's State Motto: God Enriches