Republican Majority
Skip to content




Home
About Us
Contact
Get Involved
In The News
Media







Republican Majority 
					Arizona House of Representatives				







Recent Articles

 




8
Sep



Spotlights to illuminate Phoenix sky in remembrance of 9/11
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (SEPTEMBER 8, 2011) – Two spotlights will shine into the Phoenix sky Sunday night in remembrance of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States of America. The spotlights will be lit outside the state Capitol as part of a remembrance ceremony this Sunday, the 10th anniversary of the attacks.
The remembrance event – “9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes” – will feature Historian Marshall Trimble, Phoenix Bishop Thomas Olmsted, Phoenix Fire Department Chief Bob Khan, and Mark Spencer representing the Arizona Police Association and the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association. The public is invited and encouraged to attend this opportunity to reflect together on the tragedy of Sept. 11 and honor those who protected us.
As part of this remembrance, residents and businesses in downtown Phoenix are being asked to turn off their lights starting at 6:30 p.m. this Sunday in honor of those who were lost on Sept. 11. The spotlights will remain illuminated through the evening.
9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes

What: Remembrance ceremony for the 10th year anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks
When: This Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011; 6:30 p.m.
Where: Front of Old State Capitol, 1700 W. Washington
Phoenix, AZ 85007

 
Opening Remarks
Marshall Trimble

Posting of the Colors
Police Fire Department Honor Guard

God Bless America
Marshall Trimble

Invocation
Bishop Thomas J. Olmsted

Remarks
Chief Bob Khan, Phoenix Fire Department

Mark Spencer, Arizona Police Association
& President, Phoenix Law Enforcement Association

Russell Pearce, President of the Arizona  State Senate

Andy Tobin, Speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives

Spotlights in remembrance of Sept. 11 attacks


For more information:

Daniel Scarpinato, Director of Communications, Arizona House of Representatives
602-926-3233
dscarpin@azleg.gov




6
Sep



9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes
First responders, American Heroes to be honored on 10th Anniversary of September 11
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (SEPTEMBER 6, 2011) – Arizona will honor the heroes of Sept. 11, 2001, at a remembrance ceremony this Sunday, the 10th anniversary of the attacks on the United States of America.
The remembrance event will feature Historian Marshall Trimble, Phoenix Bishop Thomas Olmsted and representatives of local firefighters and police. The public is invited and encouraged to attend this opportunity to reflect together on the tragedy of Sept. 11 and honor those who protected us.
As part of this remembrance, residents and businesses in downtown Phoenix are being asked to turn off their lights starting at 6:30 p.m. this Sunday in honor of those who were lost on Sept. 11.
9/11: Remembering Our American Heroes
 Details and Agenda to come
What: Remembrance ceremony for the 10th year anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks
When: This Sunday, Sept. 11, 2011; 6:30 p.m.
Where: State Capitol Complex, 1700 W.Washington
Phoenix,AZ 85007
For more information:
Daniel Scarpinato, Director of Communications,ArizonaHouse of Representatives
602-926-3233
dscarpin@azleg.gov
Mike Philipsen, Communications Advisor,ArizonaStateSenate
602-926-3972
mphilips@azleg.gov




15
Aug



Rep. Justin Olson on Sunday Square Off: Resurgence of free market principles and a bright economic future

Watch Representative Justin Olson on Channel 12’s Sunday Square Off discuss how to get to a bright economic future and the resurgence of free market principles.




11
Aug



Rep. John Kavanagh on LunchCast: Voice of fiscal sanity v. Democrat attempts to bankrupt Arizona

Representative John Kavanagh on Channel 12’s LunchCast provides the facts regarding AHCCCS, Arizona’s Medicaid program and yesterday’s Arizona Superior Court ruling. The court upheld the legislature’s action to reform AHCCCS eligibility that helps provide sound fiscal footing to Arizona’s economy. 
Arizona has one of the nation’s most generous Medicaid programs along with six other states. Contrary to minority claims, childless adults who are currently on AHCCCS will not be eliminated for coverage nor will anyone be kicked off the program. Only those whose income increases beyond AHCCCS qualifications or decide not to re-register for services. 




11
Aug



HOUSE SPEAKER ANDY TOBIN PRAISES RULING PROTECTING LIFE
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (AUGUST 11, 2011)– House Speaker Andy Tobin released the following statement today in response to the Arizona Court of Appeals upholding the Abortion Consent Act.
“Today’s decision by the Arizona Court of Appeals is a tremendous victory for life inArizona. The Abortion Consent Act protects the health and safety of Arizonawomen as well as the preborn. While I wish we had been able to implement this important legislation two years ago, this is a significant step forward in our efforts to protect and defend life at all stages. I want to congratulate my legislative colleagues on both sides of the aisle who supported this legislation and Governor Brewer for signing it. I’m also very grateful to Attorney General Horne and his legal team for providing a strong legal defense of this litigation as well as David Cantelme for legally representing my office in the case.”
Under the Abortion Consent Act, passed by the Legislature and signed by Governor Brewer in 2009:
- The state will require a notarized parental signature before an abortion can be performed on a minor child.
- Women will be provided with full and accurate information by a doctor in person at least 24 hours before an abortion.
- Medical professionals cannot be forced to perform abortions if it contradicts their sincerely held religious or moral beliefs.
- Non-doctors will not be permitted by law to perform surgical abortions.
Here’s a link to the Court’s ruling (PDF)
For more information or to schedule interviews, please contact Daniel Scarpinato at 602-926-3233 or dscarpin@azleg.gov




11
Aug



REP. DAVID GOWAN RECOGNIZED BY DEPT. OF DEFENSE FOR SUPPORTING MILITARY
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (AUGUST 10, 2011)– The United States Department of Defense has presented a Certificate of Appreciation to state Representative David Gowan for supporting military service members and their families.
The certificate, signed by Robert L. Gordon, III, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy, recognizes Representative Gowan “for his leadership on public policy changes positively impacting the quality of life of Service members and their families residing inArizona, during the 2011 Legislative Session.”
Representative Gowan, a Sierra Vista Republican and chairman of the House Military Affairs and Public Safety Committee, represents District 30, which includes the Fort Huachuca Army installation.
“I am honored to receive this recognition from the Department of Defense,” said Gowan. “My district includes many brave men and women who, along with their families, are defending our freedom and fighting to keepAmericasafe. I am proud to represent them and stand up for their best interests in the Arizona Legislature.”
This is the second consecutive year Rep. Gowan has been recognized by the Department of Defense. In 2010, he received a Seven Seals Award for “meritorious leadership and initiative in support of the men and women who serveAmericain the National Guard and Reserve.”




11
Aug



State, universities work to improve accessibility
By Representative Bob Robson
In May, thousands of Arizona high-school seniors turned their tassels, threw their caps in the air and embarked on an exciting new chapter of their lives.
So what now?
As parents, we all want our children to have the best opportunities possible. As a state legislator and Arizonan, I value the fact that how we educate the workforce of tomorrow will determine the future of our state, especially as the nature of the global economy demands that a higher proportion of the state’s population be college educated.
That is why despite the difficult budgetary issues our universities and community colleges are facing during this economic slowdown, leaders are also taking steps to ensure that a college education remains accessible and affordable to our Arizona students.
It is true that university tuition has escalated in recent years. There’s no doubt about that. However, Arizona’s universities still represent a tremendous bang for your buck. We have world-class programs for our students, and our tuition remains in the bottom third nationally, while the universities themselves have been providing financial aid to defray their “sticker price.”
Moreover, our schools are taking additional steps – some at the direction of state lawmakers and Gov. Jan Brewer – to reduce other costs that students have traditionally faced.
A major saving for families and students has been the universities’ pledge programs, where students are guaranteed the same tuition for four years, allowing financial stability and planning.
Instead of forcing students to purchase textbooks, Arizona State University now offers students the ability to rent them simply for as long as they are needed – greatly reducing one of the greatest costs students face at our universities.
Access also means having seats for all the qualified students who want a college degree. Both Northern Arizona University and the University of Arizona have expanded their enrollments in recent years, and ASU has added a staggering 20,000 additional qualified students in the last decade.
This focus on access and degree completion is also evident in the collaboration between community colleges and universities. For example, today a student can enroll at Yavapai College and is automatically dually enrolled at NAU.
Similar venues are happening across the state, changing the higher-education model and making an advanced degree available to more and more students.
ASU offers several programs of this kind, including a Pathways Program with Maricopa Community Colleges. In total, NAU has seven joint-admission agreements with seven different community-college districts.
Beyond this, you will now find online classes at ASU for students who don’t fit into the traditional university model. Again, more accessibility.
We are beginning to see a small but significant economic recovery. My hope is that many of the sacrifices our K-12 and university system have had to endure are behind us now.
And this past legislative session, Gov. Brewer and the Legislature instructed the Arizona Board of Regents to look at ways of looking at affordability and funding parity at our universities.
Our goal is to create a university-funding model that is student- and results-focused, so that dollars between our three major universities in the state are appropriated evenly and fairly based on their needs and outcomes. We’re anxious to see the regents move in this direction.
I know Arizona families are struggling through this economy. And I know that means college affordability is as imperative as ever.
In conjunction with our universities, we are doing our best to make sure that during these challenging times the young men and women of today have as much, if not more, access to earn an education as those who came before them.
Bob Robson, a Chandler Republican, is an Arizona state representative from District 20.




11
Aug



Don’t repeat mistakes made since Rodeo-Chediski
By Representative Chester Crandell
More than 800 square miles were torched, 32 home were destroyed and taxpayers are on the hook for $100 million.
That’s the cost of the Wallow fire, the largest wildfire in our state’s history. Sadly, this could have been prevented.
As I watched the news reports of the fire burning in Apache County, I had flashbacks of the two weeks spent away from my home during the Rodeo-Chediski fire in 2002 that burned more than 400,000 acres of prime Ponderosa forest.
My heart aches for the people who have had to experience such a tragedy.
The Forest Health Advisory Council (FHAC), formed after the Rodeo-Chediski fire, reported that under the current forest management practices, we would have a repeat wildfire of the same magnitude or greater. They were right.
The U.S. Forest Service chose to postpone action on the FHAC’s correct recommendations because of out-of-state environmental activists, most of whom have never stepped foot in Arizona.
We are blessed to live in the beautiful, majestic state of Arizona. We are surrounded by such beauty and you can’t help but be in awe of the state’s stunning environment. We all want to protect it.
But unfortunately, these groups are pushing such an irrational and extreme political agenda that they are actually doing grave damage to the environment they claim to want to protect — not to mention our safety and our economy.
Through lawsuits and court-initiated orders, these groups have forced the mismanagement of our beautiful forests.
It’s time to reject the extremists of these groups and demand that the federal government allows us to properly manage our forests.
Now that the fires have been put out, we need a two-pronged approach to prevent such a travesty from happening again. We must clear the fire-damaged area and allow the salvage timber that was not burned to be sold.
This is why I support Senator Jon Kyl’s Arizona Wallow Fire Recovery Act (S. 1344). The bill expedites the removal of hazardous, dead and dying trees, thus quickening forest rehabilitation.
We have a short window of opportunity and must act immediately. We must allow the salvage timber to be sold, helping to pay for the loss that has already been incurred. This will provide the added benefit of cleaning the forests so as they start to regrow, they will be beautiful and inviting once again. To accomplish forest restoration as well as post-fire salvage, there will have to be a balance of economic and environmental positions. Environmental interests cannot slow down this process or the economic benefit of salvage will be permanently lost.
The Rodeo-Chediski salvage opportunities were lost due to environmental roadblocks. Now the remaining wood has no economic value to anyone. Had Arizona been able to clean or salvage the damaged and destroyed trees like the Wallow Fire Recovery Act calls for, we would have had economic growth as well as an aesthetic factor that would have paid off in tourism dollars for years to come.
Let’s not make the same mistake moving forward that was made after the Rodeo-Chediski fire and allow an even bigger fire to ravage the state of Arizona.
— Chester Crandell, a Heber Republican, is a state representative from District 5.




28
Jul



Welcome & Overview by Speaker Andy Tobin

Capitol Forum – Speaker of The AZ House Andy Tobin from ACTV on Vimeo.




26
Jul



SCHOOL CONSOLIDATION SUBJECT OF JOINT LEGISLATIVE STUDY COMMITTEE
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (July 26, 2011) –The Joint Study Committee on School District Unification and Consolidation will convene its first meeting tomorrow, July 27, at 10 a.m. in House Hearing Room 3. Comprised of members of the Legislature, school and county superintendents, governing board members, a teacher and representatives from the business community, the Committee will focus its attention on developing legislation that will streamline the unification and consolidation process for school districts and allow for discussion on consolidation of services among school districts or through county lines.
“The plan is to find possible duplication, redundancy and administrative waste that can lead to cost efficiencies that can be directed back in the classroom,” said Representative John Fillmore, bill sponsor of HB2219, which created the Committee last legislative session. “I know that the expertise of the members of the Committee will allow for fruitful debate and effective problem-solving of the concerns raised in previous efforts.”
Rep. Fillmore also serves as a member of the Committee and has worked closely with the Committee’s co-chairs, Senator Crandall and Representative Doris Goodale to set a first meeting agenda that addresses the key issues surrounding the school district unification and consolidation debate.
“My perspective on these issues is not rooted in educational philosophy, but more from the viewpoint of a businessman of 27 years,” Representative Fillmore said. “I see our schools struggle for financial resources and to me, looking at consolidating services and administrative functions seems to be a viable solution – especially when the end result of those savings finds itself in the hands of our classroom teachers and students. I want to hear from the education and business communities, inventory their ideas and start coming up with solutions.”
The Committee’s charge requires a report outlining recommendations for legislative action on or before December 31, 2011 to the Governor, the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
“My hope is a legislative package that will encompass the ideas brought forth through the study sessions,” Fillmore said. “Ultimately, a framework that can be used by the local communities but tailored to their own specific needs, keeping in mind that the needs should be based on ensuring academic achievement in our classrooms.”
Subsequent meetings of the Committee will be announced tomorrow.
For more information, contact Daniel Scarpinato in the House at 602-926-3233/ dscarpinato@azleg.gov, or Mike Philipsen in the Senate at 602-926-3972/ mphilipsen@azleg.gov




20
Jul



RIBBON-CUTTING FOR NEW CIVIL AIR PATROL FACILITY
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (July 15, 2011) – State Representative Jerry Weiers, District 12, is announcing there will be a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Monday for a new facility for Glendale’s Civil Air Patrol Composite Squadron 308.
The new building is 12 years in the making. In 1999, Representative Weiers and his daughter attended the Civil Air Patrol at Glendale Airport and noticed it was difficult for the cadets to conduct their training and classes in their current facility given other activities on site. So, he decided to work on helping the squadron build a new home.
In March, Representative Weiers broke ground on the new building. The facility will be used for storing the Squadron’s aircraft and for classes in leadership and aerospace for the cadets.
“These young students now finally have a home of their own, allowing them to fully benefit from this great program,” Weiers said. “This ribbon-cutting is years in the making. The students will now have a first-rate facility in which to conduct their activities. I’m proud to have been part of this effort.”
           WHAT:           U.S. Civil Air Patrol Composite Squadron 308 Hangar Ribbon-Cutting
           WHEN:           Monday, July 18, 6 p.m.
           WHERE:         Glendale Airport, the southern most hangers on site
           FEATURING: State Representative Jerry Weiers, District 12, Glendale
           CONTACT:    Daniel Scarpinato at 602-926-3233




1
Jul



Congressman Paul Gosar to testify before House Committee on Forest Management
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (July 1, 2011) – In response to Arizona’s catastrophic wildfire season, Arizona Congressman Paul Gosar will testify this Tuesday, July 5, before a House Ad Hoc Committee on Arizona Forests Restoration Management about how best to collaborate with the federal government regarding this issue.
The bipartisan committee plans to have a roundtable discussion with Congressman Gosar regarding post-fire harvest, long-term landscape management and ongoing positive economic activities that create jobs and protect Arizona land. 
“I’m thrilled that Congressman Gosar will be meeting with our committee on Arizona Forests Restoration Management since it’s critical we properly diagnose the problem to do all we can to make sure we never face such catastrophic fires ever again,” Co-Chair Brenda Barton said. 
	WHO:		Representatives Brenda Barton (Co-Chair), Chester Crandell (Co-Chair), Albert Hale, David Stevens, Bruce Wheeler and Congressman Paul Gosar 	
	WHAT:	Ad Hoc Committee on Arizona Forests Restoration Management 	
	WHEN:	Tuesday, July 5, 2:00pm
	WHERE:	House Hearing Room 4
CONTACT:	Daniel Scarpinato at 602-926-3233 (Friday)
Paul Boyer at 602-926-5545 (Tuesday)




29
Jun



REP. PEGGY JUDD TOURS HORSESHOE 2 FIRE DAMAGE
CHIRICAHUA MOUNTAINS (June 29, 2011) – State Representative Peggy Judd (Republican-District 25) toured areas of the Chiricahua Mountains devastated by the Horseshoe 2 Fire on Friday – a tour that underlines the importance of properly caring for our forests.
Representative Judd toured the area with the Eastern Montana Type II Incident Management Team. Her tour included Pinery Canyon Road, up to Rustler’s Park and down through Paradise to East Whitetail Canyon.
“The brave firefighters and emergency responders involved in fighting this fire worked as hard as they could with the best equipment and technology available,” Judd said. “We own a giant debt of gratitude to them.”
Representative Judd said the tour also reinforced the importance of properly harvesting and landscaping our forests to prevent such catastrophic fires.
“Something must be done,” she said. “We need to protect our forest and the people of our state by properly caring for and grooming our forests. We are the stewards of the land we use and enjoy.”
Representative Judd resides in Willcox and represents District 25, which includes nearly all of Southeastern Arizona, including the Chiricahuas in Cochise County and rural areas of Santa Cruz, Pima, Pinal and Maricopa County.
For to read Representative Judd’s blog about her tour and view her photos, go here: http://horseshoe2fire.blogspot.com




24
Jun



SPEAKER TOBIN CALLS FOR CYBER TERRORISTS TO BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (June 24, 2011) – Speaker Andy Tobin released the following statement in response to the hacking group LulzSec breaking into the Arizona Department of Public Safety’s computers on Thursday and downloading hundreds of files:
“I am outraged to learn that a group of international hackers have illegally stolen and released hundreds of law enforcement files from the Department of Public Safety. Even more outrageous is that they have done this in response to the Legislature and Governor’s efforts to secure our border and protect Arizona citizens by passing SB1070. Instead, this extremist group has now put hundreds of Arizona’s finest in danger. These cyber terrorists should be prosecuted to the full extent possible. Their actions have compromised the safety of our brave law enforcement officers and their families. Therefore, we will be looking at whether additional policy is needed to fully hold them accountable in the event the release of this information results in harm to any of our public safety officers or their families.”




13
Jun



Statement by Speaker Andy Tobin On Special Session
“The House is committed to efforts to help the unemployed. With Governor Brewer’s help we passed historic legislation with the Jobs Bill in the last legislative session and we’re already seeing major employers expanding in Arizona. We want to make sure when the Obama Administration money runs out that Arizonans have jobs to go to. We want to continue our job creation efforts and we hope the Democrats will join us instead of suppressing job creation.”




26
May



Speaker Tobin Responds to U.S. Supreme Court Upholding Arizona’s Employer Sanctions Law
“To our critics who say Arizona has no role in immigration related issues, the Supreme Court has said otherwise. The Obama Administration was one of those critics and after four years of lawsuits and scare tactics, I’m glad to see we finally came out on top on this one. We’re grateful that we can now give Arizonans confidence that we are continuing to implement the rule of law given that President Obama is more interested in mocking those of us who want our border secured than protecting American citizens.”




28
Apr



ANDY TOBIN ELECTED SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE – Northern Arizona businessman keeps House on winning path
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (April 28, 2011) – State Representative Andy Tobin is the new Speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives. Representative Steve Court, a Mesa Republican, replaces him as Majority Leader.
A Republican from Paulden, Speaker Tobin was elected Thursday by his peers, bringing a diverse business background and wide-ranging life experience to the job. Tobin called former Speaker Kirk Adams a “friend” and praised his leadership of the House.
“Kirk’s leadership was key to our tremendous successes this year, and we intend to stay on that winning path. My prayers and best wishes are with Kirk and his family,” Speaker Tobin said. “I am truly honored to have the support of the Republican caucus as we continue to address some of the most difficult challenges Arizona has ever faced and fight to preserve our freedoms. We will continue to debate the federal government over states’ rights and federal overreach. We will keep the state budget balanced, making sure we don’t bury our children in more debt under the guise of helping them – all the while only handing them the bill and interest payments. I also want to thank my wife Jennifer and my kids for all their support as I take on this great responsibility.”




28
Apr



KIRK ADAMS STEPPING DOWN TODAY
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (April 28, 2011) – Speaker Kirk Adams announced today that he will be resigning from the Arizona House of Representatives. He released the following statement:
“Today I will be stepping down as both Speaker of the House and as a state Representative to pursue some exciting, new opportunities. Serving the people of District 19 has been a humbling and distinct honor these past five years, and having the chance to address some of the most complex and difficult challenges in our state’s history as a Member and later as Speaker has been the opportunity of a lifetime. The decision to leave was a difficult one, but new challenges await and I am confident in the leadership that follows me. I want to thank my fellow legislators for their support and confidence over these years, as well as President Pearce and Governor Brewer. We’ve all done some amazing things together and in the process made some very tough decisions that have made Arizona a better place to live. I could not have done any of this without the support and love of my wife JaNae and my family.”
For more information, please contact Daniel Scarpinato at 602-926-3233 or dscarpin@azleg.gov




20
Apr



ARIZONA TOOK BOLD ACTION IN RECORD TIME
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (April 20, 2011) – The Arizona House of Representatives wrapped up the 1st regular session of the 50th legislative session today, meeting some of the biggest challenges in the state’s history – and doing so in record time.
Lawmakers adjourned in 100 days – the shortest session in more than a decade. Only five times in the last 30 years have lawmakers finished so swiftly.
What’s even more impressive is that lawmakers tackled some of the most complex challenges in the state’s history: Closing a $1 billion budget shortfall; reforming entitlements; streamlining government; and creating jobs.
“It’s fitting that the centennial Legislature rose to the great challenges before us in a way that the legendary Arizona leaders who came before us would be proud of,” said House Speaker Kirk Adams. “Rather than kick the can down the road, this Legislature proved that it is possible to balance the budget, create jobs and reform government and entitlements. These are tough decisions that required bold action – and we rose to the challenge.”
Majority Leader Andy Tobin credit both veteran and new lawmakers for coming together and getting down to business.
“Our work to fix our economy, create jobs and reign-in spending does end today – but by making bold decisions over the last 100 days we are a giant step closer to brighter days for Arizona,” Tobin said. “The voters sent us here to make tough decisions, and together, we’ve worked hard to do just that.”
Less than 40 days into the session, the House passed a historic and comprehensive Jobs Bill. The largest permanent tax cut in Arizona history, this Jobs Bill is the first step in our efforts to turn Arizona’s economy around, diversify our economic base and make sure there are high-paying, high-quality jobs for hard-working Arizonans.
Eighty-two days into the session, the House passed a balanced budget that cut more than $1 billion from the state budget and instituted long-term spending reforms. This was the first structurally-balanced budget to pass the Legislature in at least five years – and it included no new gimmicks, debt or borrowing.
Ninety-five days into the session, the House passed a major pension reform package that protects the commitment we’ve made to our hard-working teachers, firemen and police officers by ensuring our state pension system is solvent and sustainable. Without a sustainable pension system, we couldn’t guarantee that it would still be there. This proposal ensures that it will be. This pension reform package aims to stop the abuses we’ve seen in the system – like double-dipping – and modifies the benefits elected officials receive to more closely match what rank-and-file state employees receive.




14
Apr



HOUSE PASSES PENSION REFORM – SB1609 stops abuses of pension system;  ensures long-term sustainability; reigns in giveaways for politicians
STATE CAPITOL,PHOENIX (April 14, 2011) – The Arizona House of Representatives passed sweeping pension reform today, aiming to stop abuses in the state retirement system and ensure its long-term sustainability.
SB1609, sponsored by Sen. Steve Yarbrough, is the result of extensive stakeholder meetings and analysis of the pension system. The bill was amended in the House to include elements of House Speaker Kirk Adams’ sweeping pension bill introduced early this session. SB1609 now goes back to the Senate.
“Today the union bosses lost and Arizona taxpayers won,” said Representative Adams. “This reform package protects our teachers, firemen and police officers. It also aims to stop some of the widely-reported abuses we’ve seen and takes away the generous giveaways for politicians. Union leaders will continue to use distortions and scare-tactics, but this responsible package ensures both taxpayers and our hard-working civil servants are protected.”
“What we have done is fixed a potentially catastrophic problem. In doing so, we have preserved benefits for future generations of public service workers,” said Senator Yarbrough.




4
Apr



U.S. SUPREME COURT DISMISSES ATTACK ON AZ SCHOOL CHOICE
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (April 4, 2011) – House Speaker Kirk Adams released the following statement today on the Supreme Court’s decision in Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization v. Winn, which keeps Arizona’s tuition scholarship tax credit program in place:
“The 26,000 Arizona students attending the school of their parents’ choice through a tuition-scholarship tax credit can breathe a collective sigh of relief today.
These important scholarships have been under constant legal attack since they were initiated 24 years ago.  They have already been upheld by the Arizona Supreme Court. And I am relieved to see the U.S. Supreme Court confer yet another layer of legal certainty. 
Congratulations to the many lawmakers who have worked so hard for educational choice over the years.  I’m proud that Arizona has a strong record of empowering students and their families with as many educational opportunities as possible.”
To see the ruling click here (PDF) – http://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/10pdf/09-987.pdf




1
Apr



HOUSE PASSES BALANCED BUDGET WITH NO GIMMICKS, DEBT OR BORROWING
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (April 1, 2011) – The Arizona House of Representatives passed a budget package Friday morning that reforms state government and structurally-balances state finances for the first time in five years.
And for the first time in a decade, that goal will be accomplished with real cuts and long-term spending reforms – not through gimmicks, debt or borrowing.
The package – the product of negotiations between the House, Senate and Governor – includes $1.3 billion in spending reductions, and provides long-term solutions to put the state on a path of financial stability.
The package protects education and public safety, while making lasting reforms to entitlement programs. The bills now go to the Senate.
“This budget honestly balances our checkbook for the first time in years,” said House Speaker Kirk Adams. “We’re making deep and lasting cuts to government and instituting long-term spending reforms that will save taxpayers money and make government more responsible. I thank the Governor and the Senate for their partnership in reaching this agreement. This is a budget to be proud of.”




31
Mar



BALANCED BUDGET PROPOSAL IS HONEST, RESPONSIBLE – no gimmicks or borrowing in  fundamental reform of state government
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (March 31, 2011) – Under a budget package unveiled Thursday by the Arizona House of Representatives, the state budget would have a structurally-balanced budget for the first time in five years.
And for the first time in a decade, that goal will be accomplished with real cuts and long-term spending reforms – not through gimmicks, debt or borrowing.
The proposal includes $1.3 billion in spending reductions, and provides long-term solutions to put the state on a path of financial stability.
“This is a budget to be proud of,” said House Speaker Kirk Adams. “We are dramatically reducing the size and scope of state government to align with revenues, while also introducing some exciting and substantive long-term spending reforms that will fundamentally change state government, making it more efficient and responsible.”




9
Mar



HOUSE PASSES EMERGENCY BILL TO FUND VITAL BORDER SECURITY OPERATION
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (March 9, 2011) – Taking a proactive approach to protecting Arizonans in the absence of the federal government securing our border, the Arizona House of Representatives passed emergency legislation today that funds border security operations in Pinal County where Sheriff Paul Babeu has launched a task force to hunt down drug cartels and human traffickers.
HB 2718 allocates $5 million for Sheriff Babeu and his deputies to purchase equipment and supplies to provide border security in the absence of federal security and protection.
The bill now goes to the Senate.
“We can no longer allow drug cartels and smuggling rings to run wild in Arizona,” said Speaker Pro Tempore Steve Montenegro, sponsor of HB 2718. “These resources are vital for Sheriff Babeu to fight these illegal criminals and keep Arizonans safe. Arizona must stand for the rule of law, and this unique task force is doing what the federal government refuses to do: It’s enforcing our laws.”
“Arizona can’t make the mistake of waiting around for Barack Obama and Janet Napolitano to secure our border,” said House Speaker Kirk Adams, also a sponsor of the legislation. “Pinal County has become the top corridor into our state and country for illegal activity, and Sheriff Babeu has taken the lead in protecting Arizonans. With this legislation, the sheriff will now have the resources he needs to stop criminals from infiltrating other parts of our state and country.”
Pinal County was selected to receive the funds due to the amount of illegal activity there, its unique border security operations and because it receives less federal funding than areas directly on the border.
“My deputies and I are not afraid to bring the fight to the Mexican Drug Cartels, but we need help to purchase equipment and supplies,” said Sheriff Babeu. “Speaker Adams, Rep. Montenegro and the Arizona House of Representatives have taken a significant step to protect Arizona families and defend the rule of law.”




8
Mar



HOUSE SPEAKER RESPONDS TO CONGRESSMAN RAUL “BOYCOTT” GRIJALVA
House Speaker Kirk Adams responded today to Congressman Grijalva’s recent letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in which he criticizes Arizona’s efforts to balance our state budget.
In a letter of his own to Congressman Grijalva mailed today, Speaker Adams highlights the depth of Arizona’s budget crisis and our soaring Medicaid liabilities. In addition to the Speaker, 35 members of the House Republican Caucus have also signed the letter. 
The letter says…
Congressman Grijalva:
We have read your letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services regarding the proposed reductions in Arizona to our Medicaid program as well as your comments in the Arizona Daily Star. At the least, your statements demonstrate limited comprehension of the magnitude of the economic crisis facing your home state. Either you do not understand the issues surrounding Arizona’s Medicaid program – or you just chose to ignore the facts. Whatever the case, your efforts to delay and sideline our important progress of balancing the state’s budget will continue to leave many Arizonans with the false impression that we can provide services for which, in reality, there is no revenue source. To date, you have failed to provide any solution to that mathematical problem.
You apparently are not aware that Arizona faces a $543 million shortfall in the current year and a $1.15 billion shortfall in fiscal year 2012. Already, we have cut $2.2 billion from Arizona’s budget since 2008 due to plummeting revenues. Over the same period of time, you and your colleagues have increased spending by more than 30 percent on the federal level. Unlike Congress, we do not have the ability to spend money we do not have – nor do we believe that is a responsible way of conducting business. 
Meanwhile, over the past decade, our Medicaid program has expanded at a record and alarming rate. In 2002, membership was just under 800,000 people. Today, it has spiked to nearly 1.4 million. That’s 1.4 million people on government subsidized health care in Arizona. Our general fund obligation over that time has increased from $675 million to $1.5 billion per year. That means that today, Arizona provides more generous Medicaid coverage than 44 other states in the country. More than 20 percent of Arizonans are covered by government subsidized care – a growing and unsustainable weight of responsibility given our current budget crisis. 
Faced with this crisis, Governor Brewer had the courage and leadership to put forward a bold proposal in January that seeks to reduce our Medicaid rolls by approximately 250,000 people. Given the massive expansions in the system over the last decade, even with these significant cuts, more than 1 in every 6 Arizonans will still be covered by Medicaid. This remains a responsible and generous level of care.
In your letter to Medicaid and State Operations Director Cindy Mann, you allege that Arizona has “considered using cuts to Medicaid eligibility to pay for tax cuts.” That is flat out false. We are considering reductions to our Medicaid program in order to balance our budget – an exercise you have demonstrated no experience with given the aforementioned information.
You also state in your letter to Ms. Mann that the “recession has taken a heavy toll on our society.” That is very much true, especially here in Arizona. That’s why we as legislators have taken steps in Arizona that Congress has been unwilling to take, including rightsizing state spending to align with revenues. We also passed an historic and significant Jobs Bill, which you appear to criticize in your letter even though you do not have your facts right. As far as we can tell, your only contributions to impacting Arizona’s economy have been calling for a dangerous national boycott of our state and voting for Obamacare, which will further obligate our state to spend money we don’t have on Medicaid requirements. We believe our pro-growth measures are more productive than your inflammatory and destructive approach.
Despite your grandstanding attempt to jump into this process at the 11th hour, this issue has received extensive vetting and debate and will continue to receive hearings and opportunities for public input and discussion in the appropriate venue. It’s unfortunate that you did not participate in this discussion earlier. It’s also unfortunate that you have decided to criticize our governor’s proposed solution to our budget crisis, but failed to offer any alternative solutions. Arizonans deserve more from their elected officials.
Sincerely,
Kirk D. Adams
Speaker of the House
District 19




3
Mar



ARIZONA HOUSE RECOGNIZES PREGNANCY CARE CENTERS FOR THEIR WORK PROVIDING HEALTH CARE TO VULNERABLE WOMEN
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX – The Arizona House of Representatives heard a resolution this afternoon acknowledging the work of the Pregnancy Care Centers of Arizona.
HCR 2034 acknowledges the profound impact these organizations have on Arizona. More than 50 staff members and volunteers from Pregnancy Care Centers throughout Arizona are at the legislature today and were recognized during Floor session.
There are more than 50 nonprofit Pregnancy Care Centers throughout Arizona that provide women with health care, often when facing crisis pregnancies, for little or no cost. Many of these organizations are completely staffed by volunteers and all receive no state or federal funds.
Women faced with crisis pregnancies can access a variety of services at Pregnancy Care Centers including pregnancy and STD testing, ultrasound screening, adoption counseling, parenting classes, post-abortive counseling and more.
The resolution passed the House floor earlier this afternoon.




1
Mar



Arizona House Urges Congress, President to Support F-35 Program
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX — Today the Arizona House of Representatives unanimously passed a Memorial (HM 2001) urging Congress to fully fund the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.
“The Arizona House is sending a clear message to Congress to make the right decision to fully support the F-35 program,” said State Representative Jerry Weiers, original author of the Memorial. “As new threats to freedom emerge, it’s more important than ever for the U.S. and our Allies to have the F-35. This aircraft is vital to the defense of our nation and the well-being of our state. Arizona is the home of Luke Air Force Base, the preferred site for training F-35 pilots and maintainers.”
Today’s vote caps a concerted effort led by Weiers to support our nation’s Armed Services with a 5th generation, multi-role stealth tactical fighter, capable of countering current and future threats. By passing a House Memorial, Arizona Representatives officially notify Arizona’s Members of Congress, President Obama, and House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) that the Arizona House of Representatives urges full support of the F-35 program.
“The fact that we have bipartisan consensus on this issue sends an unmistakable message to Congress that we must live up to the commitments we make to our troops and support the F-35 program,” said Weiers.
“This is not a political issue. Our fighting men and women around the world deserve the very best equipment we can provide.  The F-35 is the most cost-effective solution for replacing aging U.S. and Allied fighter fleets.   Arizona’s Luke Air Force Base is poised to train the world’s best F-35 pilots and maintainers—that’s our commitment to the nation.  Our nation has already invested taxpayer dollars in developing this plane. Now Arizona and our nation must reap the benefits of this investment by moving forward with a program that will be a cornerstone of global security and peace in the 21st century,” said Weiers.
###
Arizona State Representative Jerry Weiers represents Arizona’s 12th District. He is chairman of the Arizona House of Representatives Rules Committee, as well as a member of the National Conference of State Legislatures Military Sustainability Taskforce. He also serves as a board member for the Phoenix Air National Guard Patriots (PANG Patriots).  




23
Feb



BILL FUNDS SHERIFF’S BORDER SECURITY OPERATION IN PINAL COUNTY
STATE CAPITOL, PHOENIX (Feb. 23, 2011) – In an effort to protect Arizona citizens from the violence plaguing our state from illegal immigration, Republican lawmakers in the Arizona House of Representatives want to fund border security operations in Pinal County where Sheriff Paul Babeu has launched a task force to hunt down drug cartels and human traffickers.
HB 2718 would allocate $5 million for Sheriff Babeu and his deputies to purchase equipment and supplies to provide border security in the absence of federal security and protection.
With illegal immigration still impacting our state, and the federal government believing the border is now secured, House Speaker Kirk Adams said Arizona needs to make sure Sheriff Babeu has the necessary resources to fulfill his responsibilities.
“This is an issue of national security. The federal government, Congress and the presidential administrations of both political parties have failed to secure and defend our border. Sheriff Babeu has stepped up to the plate and is fighting to protect Arizonans – in Pinal County and beyond,” said House Speaker Kirk Adams, sponsor of the legislation. “Years of neglect and denial have allowed Pinal County to become the top corridor into our state and country for illegal activity. Sheriff Babeu’s important and courageous work will help keep America and Arizona safe.”
“Arizona is once again taking the lead to secure our border and keep our citizens safe. Sheriff Babeu is leading the fight, and we join him in saying ‘enough is enough,’” said Speaker Pro Tempore Steve Montenegro, also a sponsor of HB 2718. “We can no longer allow these drug cartels and smuggling rings to run wild in our streets and deserts.”
Pinal County was selected to receive the funds due to the amount of illegal activity there, its unique border security operations and because it receives less federal funding than areas directly on the border.
Speaker Adams came up with the idea prior to the legislative session, when he heard about Sheriff Babeu’s task force on a local radio station.
Sheriff Babeu said that funds will arrive at a critical time.
“Pinal County is the No. 1 pass through county in America for drug and human smuggling,” said Sheriff Babeu. “Speaker Adams knows we’re the new front line and he’s confident that I’ll take the fight to the drug cartels who think they own the place. Speaker Adams has stepped up in a major way to protect Arizona families, defend the rule of law and is doing something the feds have not done – help me fight back.”




16
Feb



Arizona Jobs Bill Fact Sheet
The Jobs Bill (HB2001)  will foster a more business-friendly climate, attract all types of businesses both large and small, create jobs with good pay and benefits, and provide much needed tax relief to businesses. The unemployment rate in Arizona has remained above nine percent for the past 21 months with some Arizona counties in double-digit unemployment. There has never been a more critical time for this job creation legislation.
The proposal also provides tax relief for small and large businesses to allow them to start hiring again, all of which is designed to make Arizona more competitive in attracting and retaining businesses in the state.
This legislation focuses on several areas:
- Corporate income
- Business property tax cuts
- Job training
- The Arizona Commerce Authority
Provisions of the bill contain the following:
A. Tax Relief
o The Corporate Income Tax Reduction is critical to attract and retain businesses in the state, as well as make Arizona competitive with other states. A phased-in reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 6.968% to 4.9% over four years will create a more business-friendly environment, making Arizona more competitive for businesses to locate and operate here.
- The Corporate Income Tax Reduction will begin in tax year 2014 and will end in tax year 2017
- The rate will be reduced by roughly half a percentage point each year.
o Sales Tax Factor reform will be electable and benefit export-oriented businesses in Arizona by lowering the base of taxation along with the rate.
- The sales tax factor will go from 80 percent to 100 percent by five percentage points annually beginning in tax year 2014 and ending in tax year 2017.  
B.  Real and Personal Property Tax Reform
o Real and Personal Property – both class one (commercial real and personal property) and class two (agriculture real and property) will receive reductions in their assessment ratios
- Class one will decrease from 20% to 18% and class two will decrease from 16% to 15%
- Reductions will begin in Tax Year 2013 and end in Tax Year 2017
- The home owner rebate reforms in Rep. Lesko’s bill, HB2708, are part of the real property tax reforms in the Jobs Bill
o Accelerated Depreciation – the effect of this reform will allow businesses to expense the life of their asset (value) in an accelerated manner so there is less to tax for any investments on or after Tax Year 2012.
o Personal Property Exemption makes equipment and other business personal property tax exemptions from approximately $67,000 a year to $79,000 per year, valuation beginning in 2011.
C.  Job creation and training programs
o The Arizona Job Training Program, which was suspended during the 2009 Legislative Session, will be reinstated.  – Meets specific needs of employers, creates new jobs and helps increase the skill and wage levels of employees in Arizona
- Can provide grant money to businesses for training new or to supplement training programs for current employees
o Quality Jobs Tax Credit will replace the Enterprise Zone which is due to expire. This is a statewide program designed to help grow the state’s small and large business sector to spur investment and job creation. Requirements include:
 – Businesses must provide median wage equal to the county
 – Pay 65 percent of healthcare for employees
 – Employees must work 1,750 full time hours annually
 – Minimum number of net new jobs for rural and urban areas 5 and 25, respectively
 – Entire program capped at $90 million, with $3,000 per net job created per year up to three years ($9,000 in total per net new job)
 – Up to 400 employees per business
D.  Incentives to attract new businesses and retain current business
o The Arizona Competes Fund is a $25 million fund that will provide incentive funds to attract much needed, high-impact businesses to the State.  Funding of this fund would come from withholding taxes and partially through the Arizona lottery. Requirements include:
- National or regional headquarters in Arizona
- Business has to be a manufacturing industry primarily engaged in out of state industrial activities (export).
o Small Business Investment Credit is a program that helps small businesses (less than 10 million in assets) receive working capital. This proposal changes the threshold, thus allowing more small businesses to qualify.
- Certification through Arizona Commerce Authority
- Asset classification changed from $2 million or under to $10 million or under
- Qualified investors do not pay taxes on capital gains
o R & D Tax Credit allows a credit if investment includes 10 percent in research and development at a state university.
- Can get 10 percent back as an R & D tax credit (non-refundable)
- Cap of $10 million annually for the entire program
E. Arizona Commerce Authority
· The Arizona Commerce Authority is a public-private entity that will help develop a focused state economic strategy, along with developing a branding and marketing focus to attract high-impact employers, as well as re-engineering the state’s economic development agency to execute it.




16
Feb



HOUSE PASSES HISTORIC JOBS BILL, GIVING MAJOR BOOST TO ARIZONA ECONOMY
STATE CAPITOL,PHOENIX (Feb. 16, 2011) – After more than a year of debate, research and vetting, the Arizona House of Representatives passed a comprehensive Jobs Bill today, laying the groundwork for Arizona’s economic recovery.
This significant and historic bill represents the largest tax cut in Arizona history.
“With passage of the Jobs Bill, we are putting our confidence in the private sector and hard-working Arizonans rather than in government. As our federal government has demonstrated, spending more on government doesn’t create jobs,” said House Speaker Kirk Adams, the sponsor of HB 2001. “We have not seen such an aggressive reform of our tax policy or efforts to spur the creation of jobs in at least two generations.With this bill we are lighting up in big bold neon letters for all the world to see: ‘Arizonais open for business.’”
The Jobs Bill originated last year in the House of Representatives after Speaker Adams commissioned a study onArizona’s economic crisis by noted economist Elliot Pollock. That study became the framework for the Jobs Bill, a combination of broad-base tax cuts and targeted incentives to attract new businesses to Arizonaand create jobs.
“This job creation package has a large and growing coalition of support from all sectors of the business community,” said House Majority Leader Andy Tobin. “This is a pro-active approach to turning around our economy. We can’t sit around and hope that the construction and housing industries improve. We need to diversify our economy and attract new businesses. This is a fundamental shift in that direction.”
The unemployment rate inArizonahas remained above nine percent for the past 21 months with some Arizona counties in double-digit unemployment. The state has lost nearly 300,000 jobs since December 2007.
This comprehensive bill provides tax relief for small and large businesses to allow them to start hiring again, all of which is designed to makeArizonamore competitive in attracting and retaining businesses in the state.
This legislation focuses on several areas:
- Corporate income
- Business property tax cuts
- Job training
- The newly formed Arizona Commerce Authority



« Older Entries







 Stay Connected 



 







Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (2)
 August 2011  (6)
 July 2011  (4)
 June 2011  (3)
 May 2011  (1)
 April 2011  (6)
 March 2011  (5)
 February 2011  (11)
 January 2011  (5)
 December 2010  (1)
 November 2010  (2)
 August 2010  (2)
 July 2010  (1)
 May 2010  (2)
 April 2010  (9)
 March 2010  (4)
 February 2010  (7)
 January 2010  (10)
 December 2009  (1)
 November 2009  (9)
 October 2009  (5)
 September 2009  (8)
 July 2009  (9)
 June 2009  (30)
 May 2009  (25)
 April 2009  (36)
  0  (1)

Blogroll Phoenix Business Journal
Investors Business Daily
WSJ Best of the Web
ABC News’ The Note
Wall Street Journal
Arizona Daily Star
Arizona Republic
National Review
Mises Institute
NCSL

  





About
The Arizona House Republican Caucus consists of 40 State Representatives who span the entire State. Our vision for Arizona is the growth of our economy through responsible government, fiscal accountability and a vibrant private sector.




Pages

About Us
Contact
Get Involved
In The News
Media





Search










Traction Theme by The Theme Foundry
Copyright © 2011 Arizona House Republicans. All rights reserved.

