Home



 
 















 


 


 













Tucson Area Weather
 click here










 



Favorite Links:

Espresso Pundit

Gila Courier

Morning in Arizona

Sonoran Alliance

Seeing Red AZ

Pima County Tea Party Patriots

National Debt Clock

Arizona State Legislature

Dirty Spending Secrets
     (cause of train wreck)






                                                                   
















Copyright © 2011 Arizona News-Telegraph

 





arizonanewstelegraph@cox.net











How Capital Crushed Labor

by Patrick J. Buchanan
























National Debt

National Debt as of 3:22 PM, 7/21/2011:     $14,518,814,300,000 
National Debt as of 10:37 PM, 9/6/2011:     $14,695,000,500,000







Recent Posts:


El Nino Incites Wars, Post Office Controls Temps

AZ Redistricting Commission Releases Preliminary Maps














the  Poli-GRAF






Sonoran Desert Conservation Plan, Pima County’s Ambitious but Flawed Scheme














"If the US Government was a family, they would be making $58,000 a year, they spend $75,000 a year, & are $327,000 in credit card debt. 

They are currently proposing BIG spending cuts to reduce their spending to $72,000 a year. 

These are the actual proportions of the federal budget & debt, reduced to a level that we can understand." 

                     - Dave Ramsey














Pima County’s Sonoran Desert Conservation Plan (SDCP) has been touted as one of the best and most comprehensive habitat conservation plans in the country. Planning began in 1998 in response to the 1997 listing of the Cactus Ferruginous pygmy owl as an endangered species. The owl was removed from the endangered species list in 2006 because the listing was found to be based on flawed science.                                        
                                                                                                            read here how the County conducts business...






Goldwater Institute’s Legislative Report Card for 2011 Legislative Sessio

                        See Report Here...






Pima County Wants More Bond Money,      I Know Where They Can Get It!

The Pima County Administrator’s Office at 130 W. Congress in Tucson, Arizona has been busy planning how to sell the next bond election.  Unfortunately, the plan may be a good one but the timing really stinks.  But I think I have a solution that can be a win-win for everyone.
                                                                    read it here...















Michael Letcher, Tucson City Manager, resigned effective August 2012.
That’s right…his resignation is effective one year from now.
If that is not an excellent example of what has been wrong with the city of Tucson, if the Mayor and Council accept this resignation on those outrageous terms then you all really will understand what’s wrong with Tucson’s city government.
                                                                             read story and a little Tucson history here...






Tucson City Manager Resigns Effective One Year From Now...New Definition of Chutzpah






Links to Latest News Outlet Stories:

9/11 Panel Co-Chair Notes 'Glaring Gaps' in Security
by Caroline Rawls at Newsmax.com

Bachmann Campaign Chief Leaves White House Run
posted by Associated Press at FoxNews.com

Postal Service Facing Default, Shutdown Without Congressional Intervention 
posted at FoxNews.com

Judge Judy - Here's Who You Support With Taxes    
video posted at RevolutionaryPolitics.tv

Obama's DOJ raids Gibson USA: Politically motivated?
posted at Seeing Red AZ

Pima County plans to approve key permit for Rosemont Mine
by Tony Davis in The Arizona Daily Star







The great American Humorist Will Rogers once said, “Alexander Hamilton started the U.S. Treasury with nothing, and that was the closest our country has ever been to being even.”









 

 





James Kelley’s

The Cholla Jumps






Garfield-Traub throws old Rio Nuevo Board, Tucson City Council under the bus






Back on August 4, I printed a press release from Jodi Bain, Chairman of the Rio Nuevo Multi-Purpose District, a shared state revenue tax increment finance district ( TIF), that stated Garfield Traub, the original developer of all the failed Rio Nuevo projects, had been overpaid $1.8 million dollars according to a forensic audit.
                                                read story here...






As we draw closer to 9/11 this little bit adds to the love and kindness that mankind can do for each other.                This is little-known story from the Pentagon on 09/11/2001...
                                                                                                                       read this from an unknown contributor...



 


 



