— theOptionWiz




theOptionWizusing options to reduce risk & improve returns Using Options To Reduce Risk And Improve Returns   








WFM call spread entered Jun 24th and closed on Jul 28th for a 14.36% gain...   ||   SINA bear call spread entered Jul 26th and closed on Jul 30th for a 7.99% gain...   ||   PCLN butterfly put spread entered Aug 3rd and closed on Aug 5th for a 8.66% gain...   ||   MSFT call spread entered May 12th and closed on Aug 9th for a 31.13% gain...   ||   VXX diagonal call spread entered Mar 24th and closed on Aug 15th for a 15.26% gain...   ||   APC bear call spread entered Jul 25th and closed on Aug 20th for a 7.71% gain...   ||   JNJ calendar call spread entered Aug 10th and closed on Aug 23th for a 19.00% gain...   ||   AXP calendar call spread entered Aug 15th and closed on Aug 26th for a 41.10% gain...
Home
Join
Members
Forum
FAQ
About Us
Track Record
Contact us

 



Click here to enter your payment information.  For further details about our program, please read below: 
 
  
 
How is this you ask…
 


 
There are three big reasons why you should include options in your investment portfolio (vs. just trading stocks):

  Greatly Reduce The Capital Committed To Each Position
  Significantly Limit Losses & Maximize Gains
 Profit without having to guess what direction a stock or ETF will move

 
How can options do all this and help you consistently and safely grow your portfolio by 5-8% each month?
The secret lies in the fact that: 
ON AVERAGE, 77% OF ALL OPTIONS EXPIRE WORTHLESS
 
This is why we at theOptionWiz.com post trades structured to collect premiums from selling options (instead of simply buying a straight call or put).  While most options traders assume the role of the gambler….. we stack the odds in our favor and play the roll of the casino.
Depending on the size and volume of your trading activity, these premiums consistently can deliver 5-8+% per month in profits.  That adds up to a 60-96% ROI for the year!  And for those of you with an even bigger appetite for profits, we also offer more aggressive trades as well!

 Generate Consistent Profits In Up, Down, and Even Sideways Markets!
 Absolutely No Options Training or Experience Required To Succeed!
 Invest Just 15-30 Minutes Per Week Maintaining Your Trades!
 Get Started With As Little As $5,000 in Your Investment Account!

 
 
 

 
 
When most portfolios are still reeling from the financial meltdown of ’08 and ’09, earning up to 96% ROI in just one year sounds almost impossible, right?
Well it isn’t—you just need to “think outside the box” when it comes to traditional stock investing.
Hi, we’re Dan and Mike and we are the creators of TheOptionWiz.com.  We’re not some hot shot internet marketers with a gimmick.  We are actual Registered Investment Advisers with more than 31 years combined stock and option trading experience.  We also happen manage a Hedge Fund. In the summer of 2010, we created an investing system for the retail investor focused upon strategies that collect premiums for out of the money options that have a 80% or higher chance of expiring worthless… The OptionWiz was born.
Specifically, we focus on option selling strategies that include:

 Credit Spreads
 Debit Spreads
 Iron Condors
 Butterflies
 Calendars
 Diagonals
 Covered Calls

 
When designing a trade, we first carefully analyze the underlying stock and its performance over an extended period of time.  We then take delta, theta, gamma, and volatility into consideration before devising low risk trades capable of generating 5-8+% returns in just 30 days or less.
As a member of TheOptionWiz.com, all you really need to worry about is counting your profits because we:

 Research and Find the Trades For You
 Determine Which Options to Buy/Sell
 Tell You To Exactly When You Need to Enter/Exit Each Trade!
 Recommend How Much to Invest On Each Trade
 Tell You How to Minimize Losses for Each Trade
 Keep You On Track for Generating Consistent 5-8% Profits Each Month in Up, Down and Even Sideways Markets!
 Tell You Exactly What Your Maximum Loss or Profit Will Be for Each Trade!

 
 

 

 
Our goal is to make at least 5 to 8+% a month on our money by selling time premium and keeping losses to an absolute minimum by doing only high probability trades, not panicking, and adjusting trades before they get into trouble and veer into losses.
You can become a member of TheOptionWiz.com for the rock-bottom rate of just $89 per month which is re-billed automatically each month unless cancelled prior to your re-bill date.  There is no contract so you are free to cancel at any time. Your membership in TheOptionWiz.com includes:

 Complete Access to All of Our Trades: By joining TheOptionWiz.com, we’ll share each of the trades we’re doing ourselves and let you know immediately when we close a position or make an adjustment. This way, you can trade along with us:  All you have to do is submit the trades to your broker! 
 Email Alerts of Trades and Updates: The      minute we enter/exit a position, make an adjustment, or have an update, you will be immediately contacted.       Don’t worry:  We don’t get involved with day trading or futures trading of any kind! 
 Immediate Access to Membership Site Resources: In addition to access to our trading information and updates, your membership also includes      immediate access to our other investment articles, guides and      resources.  You are free to review      these resources at your convenience 24/7 while a member of TheOptionWiz.com.



 
While we are totally confident that you can consistently and safely generate 5-8% profits per month using our system, we are even more concerned about your complete and total satisfaction.
This is why you have a full 60 days from the date you sign-up to fully evaluate your membership in TheOptionWiz.com. If you are dissatisfied for any reason whatsoever, simply contact us and we will gladly refund your initial investment without hassle.  You don’t need to worry about any Return Authorization Numbers or even rude customer service reps—just contact us and we’ll issue a prompt “Good Old-Fashioned” refund without incident.


 

 Never Worry About      “Buying High and Selling Low” Again!
 Invest Just 15-30      Minutes Per Week Mainlining Your Trades!
 Members Make Money On      80% Or More of Total Trades!
 Stop Wasting Your      Precious Time Researching for Trades!
 Minimize Risk and      Maximize Gains in Up, Down, or Even Sideways Markets!
 Never “Buy and Hold”      Again!

To complete your registration, please click on the link below where you will then be redirected to Clickbank, our payment gateway, to facilitate your payment.  Once your payment is received, you will have immediate access to the members only section of TheOptionWiz.com via your chosen username and password.

 
You may reach us anytime, with any question or concern by emailing us – Wiz [at] theoptionwiz.com or via our contact us page. 






Return to top of pagePrivacy Policy | T&C's | FAQ | Track Record | Contact Us



















