6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle    Vancouver :  Canada
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy            8 0      
Views: 378
       UTC (GMT)Saturday, September 10, 2011 at 00:45:00 Swirling predictions of quakes coming to the Northwest have been especially common since Japan's March catastrophe. Although there are regular small quakes in the area, Friday those predictions became a reality with a more significant tremor just off Vancouver Island. A significant earthquake with a 6.4 magnitude struck off the northwest coast of Vancouver Island and was felt as far away as B.C.'s Okanagan Valley to the east and Seattle to the south, but caused no injuries and no damage has yet been reported, according to CBC News. The quake was a shallow 14.3 miles down, said the U.S. Geological Survey. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center has not issued a tsunami warning, according to Reuters. Initially the quake was measured at 6.8, but then later downgraded to its current recording of 6.4. Aftershocks should be expected, according to research scientist, Honn Kao at the Pacific Geosciences Centre in Victoria. "Usually if the earthquake is bigger than magnitude 7 then there will certainly be a possibility that a significant tsunami can be generated," Kao educated, but there may still be a possibility with this one. Just after the lunch hour at 12:41 p.m. PT, reports of swaying buildings took place for several minutes. Twitter has been buzzing ever since then, with tweets like, NG_Vancouver I thought I was going crazy sitting here swaying in my apartment @AndreaWoo Little earthquake in Vancouver! Vancouver Sun building shaking. "I was sitting at my computer when I felt a light swaying motion," Wendy Hunter, of Vancouver, said in an email to CBC News. She continued saying she thought she was experiencing a dizzy spell. Even Seattle residents felt the shaking as windows rattled during the tremor. Residents in Canada are reminded to be prepared as geologist Brent Ward of Simon Fraser University said the quake should be “a good wake-up call” for British Columbians. “It should remind people to get their earthquake kits together and have a plan in place."  Predictions have come in the form of TV programs and geology experts alike as to the future quakes the Northwest will be experiencing. After Japan's disaster on March 11, 2011, Robert Yeats, a professor emeritus of geology at Oregon State University, warned the Northwest that if people didn't already get the message from recent disasters in Sumatra and Chile, they should be warned now. "This is an earthquake of the same type, with about the same magnitude and proximity that we face here in the Pacific Northwest from the Cascadia Subduction Zone," Yeats said. "What you are seeing in Japan today is what you will also see in our future. Except they are better prepared than we are."        1 of 28        
Significant quake rocks Vancouver Island residents to Seattle.
     
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (71.8%) Canada (11.5%) France (2.2%) Singapore (2.2%) 16 other countries (10.4%)           READ MORE: vancouver island quake, earthquake 6.4, quake, magnitude, Tsunami, damage, Vancouver Island, tsunami warning, earthquake. northwest earthquake, NW quakes   More News From: Vancouver :  Canada      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 8            Reply  Posted By     BMcPherson
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
The photo looks like Great Central Lake. Can't be sure. Vancouver Island mountains are being pushed up at about a rate of one cm(half and inch) per year and the Island is moving towards the mainland as well. These little earthquakes don't rate much conversation here. Everyone has been warned and warned again that a big one, like Chile's or Alaska's '64, is coming and to expect a couple of weeks without electricity and water. Makes me glad I don't live where there is a gas pipeline. Actually the Olympic Peninsula is more vulnerable to a big one. Think the Tacoma Narrows Bridge will hold up?
            Reply  Reply By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Don't think the new bridge will make it---what should we call this one? Hmmm, we've already had the "Galloping Gurty."
            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news. Thank goodness no one was hurt.
            Reply  Reply By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thanks George--they say we should expect a big one.
            Reply  Posted By     Surya Gaire
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
To be honest,it was interesting to read your article
            Reply  Reply By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thanks for your honesty--I hope the Great Northwest is prepared. We have put gallons of water aside.
            Reply  Posted By     Vicky247
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
The tectonics have been in rumble the beginning of August! I cannot add more but hope that it is the last for 2011.
            Reply  Posted By     marysteven
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
Thank God that no injuries reported.detailed yet precise report.Nice work!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          6.4-magnitude earthquake hits Vancouver Island, Canada By: jaded87      
A 6.4 earthquake hit Vancouver Island, Canada on Friday afternoon. No immediate reports of human and infrastructure damage have been reported so far.
No tsunami warning was issued after the earthquake on the west coast of Vancouver Island.
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said in a statement, "No destructive widespread tsunami threat." ...  about 13 hours ago     Magnitude 5.1 hits Japan By: kensai       
TOKYO-A 5.1-earthquake shook northern Japan on Wednesday night, but there were no immediate reports of damage or casualties and no tsunami warning, the Meteorological Agency said.
 
The earthquake occurred at 22:29 (1329 GMT) at a shallow point near the coast of Urakawa, on the southern coast of the island of Hokkaido, the Japan ...  2 days ago     6.6 magnitude earthquake hits Indonesia By: jahanzaibdar      6th Sep 2011: A 6.6 magnitude earthquake rocked Indonesia's SUMATRA ISLAND.
According to the Tsunami warning center the earth quake was too far to generate a tsunami. The earthquake struck at 12:55 am and the depth of earthquake was 110 kilometers.Sumatra was devastated in december by the earthquake of magnitude 9.1 and that was a huge tsunami ...  4 days ago     Magnitude 7.0 quake shakes Vanuatu By: nazish7      According to the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center, no Pacific-wide tsunami
threat exists after a 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck near Vanuatu
Saturday afternoon.
The epicenter of the quake was roughly 78
miles south-southeast of Isangel, Vanuatu. It struck just after 12:55
p.m. Hawaii Standard Time.A scientist at the Warning Center said
the ...  6 days ago     Alaska is rocked by major earthquake,measuring 6.8  By: kingston23      The Geological Survey of the United States reported the quake in the village of Atka, southeast of the state. It issued a tsunami alert that was later canceled. Last week, the country was beaten by Hurricane Irene
,A
large earthquake of 6.8 magnitude was recorded Friday morning in the
Aleutian Islands in Alaska, where he launched a tsunami ...  7 days ago     Breaking : Earthquake of 6.8 degrees in Alaska tsunami warning active ... By: anawili       An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.8 degrees on Friday hit the coast of Alaska, prompting a tsunami warning for some coastal regions of the state, which was canceled and reported the U.S. Geological Survey.
Initially, it was reported that the quake occurred at a depth of nearly 10 kilometers and with a magnitude of 7.1, but the ...  7 days ago     Major earthquake jolts Alaska; Tsunami warning issued then lifted By: mahlina       
Alaska was rocked by a major earthquake measuring a magnitude of 7.1 on the Richter scale early Friday morning as reported by the U.S. Geological Survey. The USGS issued, and then cancelled, a tsunami warning after only a small wave was recorded in Alaska’s Aleutian Islands.
The epicenter of the quake was 1,000 miles from Alaska’...  7 days ago     Magnitude 7.1 earthquake triggered Alaska, Tsunami Warning  By: geanlie_jem       
A 7.1 magnitude earthquake triggered Alaska's Aleutian Island early on friday. Tsunami alert issued in the remote region. 
The quake occurred around 1.55 am at a depth of 33 miles. Residents at Dutch Harbor woke by sirens as the emergency response.
Aleutian Islands sit on the Pacific Ring of Fire, a horseshoe-shaped seismic belt ...  7 days ago     Breaking News!!!! 7.1 quake hits Alaska, tsunami warning issued By: jahanzaibdar      2nd Sep 2011: Tsunami warning issued after 7.1 quake rocks Alaska.It is said that the shallow quake occured 125 miles from the town of Atka.
Alaska has been struck by a major earthquake of 7.1 magnitude today and a tsunami warning has been given to the remote region.  7 days ago     Magnitude 7.8 quake hits off New Zealand - USGS By: izabel      WASHINGTON: A powerful magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck off the
Kermadec Islands, northeast of New Zealand, the U.S. Geological Survey
reported on Wednesday.
The quake, initially reported as a magnitude 7.9, triggered a tsunami
warning for New Zealand, the Kermadec Islands and Tonga, the U.S.
Pacific Tsunami Center said.
It struck at 7:03 a.m....  14 days ago     Quake hits off Indonesia By: izabel      JAKARTA: Indonesia lowered the magnitude of an earthquake which struck
off eastern Sumatra island on Tuesday from 6.5 to 4.4, a seismologist
said, adding that there were no immediate reports of damage.  "The
magnitude of the quake was 4.4, not 6.5 as earlier announced," the
country's Meteorology and Geophysics Agency technical chief ...  14 days ago     6.0 magnitude earthquake jolts Indonesia’s Sumatra Island  By: hkbadal      The coast of Indonesia's Sumatra Island has been jolted by a magnitude 6.0 earthquake early Tuesday morning.
The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake struck at 3:12 a.m. local time (2012 GMT), was centered about 175 kilometers southwest of Tanjungkarang-Telukbetung on the island of Sumatra.
Its depth was 31 kilometers.
No tsunami alert was ...  18 days ago     Earthquake off Indonesia  By: lethibichlan       A strong earthquake of magnitude 5 have occurred this morning (22/08) in waters off Indonesia's Sumatra island, no reports of damage and a tsunami warning, according to AFP. The quake occurred at 4 hours 14 minutes 8.22 am (local time), with the epicenter at a depth of 39km, the city of Banda Aceh in northern Sumatra, about 100km ...  19 days ago     Magnitude 7.5 quake hits Vanuatu in Pacific By: kingston23      An earthquake measuring 7.5 on the Richter scale, and 'took place in the Pacific Islands region in Vanuatu. It reveals the site of the U.S. geosismico. At the moment is not 'clear whether there are casualties or damage or whether it was issued a tsunami warning.The epicenter 'was located at sea 60 km south-east of the capital of Port-Vila to 40.5 ...  20 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Quake hits off Vancouver Island  
Delhi News-Record
 The quake, which was initially pegged at 6.7 on the Richter scale, struck at 12:41 p.m. local time...Geological Survey revised its magnitude of the quake to 6.4 shortly after the quake was first reported. Honn Kao, a seismologist with the Pacific...    Magnitude 6.7 quake strikes off of Vancouver  
San Jose Mercury News
 A magnitude-6.7 earthquake has struck off the coast of British Colombia, the U.S...The quake's epicenter just off the west coast of Vancouver Island, south of Port Hardy. According to the West Coast and Alaska Tsunami Warning Center no tsunami was...    6.7 quake strikes off Vancouver Island  
The Globe and Mail
 EDT A 6.7 magnitude earthquake has struck off the west coast of Vancouver Island, with tremours felt as far away as Metro Vancouver. But there is no tsunami warning advisory or warning for the U.S. or Canadian coasts. At 12:42 pm PT, an earthquake...    Quake rattles Vancouver Island  
Toronto Star
 A 6.4 magnitude earthquake off Vancouver Island was felt all the way across the Straight of Georgia to Vancouver and its suburbs with reports of desks shaking, windows rattling and swaying buildings. The earthquake centre in Sidney, B.C. reported the...    Earthquake rattles coastal Canada  
New Zealand Infotech Weekly
 A magnitude 6.4 quake has struck off Vancouver Island, about 281 km northwest of Vancouver on Canada's Pacific coast, but no damage has been reported in the city. In the US city of Seattle just south of the border, police reported slight rattling...    Quake hits off Vancouver Island  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 Eyewitness accounts say buildings swayed in central Vancouver.   More Related Stories     Images    >         Vancouver     Vancouver  Image Source: allvoices Significant quake rocks Vancouver Island residents to Seattle.        Vancouver Island Quake    Vancouver Island Quake Image Source: allvoices Location of Sept. 9 quake near Vancouver Island.         Rescue workers arrive in ...    Rescue workers arrive in ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Rescue workers arrive in Minamisanriku town days after the area was ...        A rescue official walks ...    A rescue official walks ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A rescue official walks through Minamisanriku town days after the area was ...        A rescue official walks ...    A rescue official walks ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A rescue official walks through Minamisanriku days after the area was ...        Washington DC first responders ...    Washington DC first responders ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Washington DC first responders speed through an intersection in Washington ...      More Related Images    More From Vancouver          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Earthquake of 6.7 degrees shook the coast of Canada        Sidney Crosby to address media about his health status        Record breaking achievement by women          Vancouver Internet Marketing,SEO,Web Design,Branding Design,Social Media       Dirt bags with ponytails standing next to babes in hats       Foot In Shoe Found On Vancouver Beach BC        Fear of 'gray tsunami' overblown: University of British Columbia research          Web Development India,Website Development Software,Web Development Software       America's Most Wanted Indian National In Police Net         Too Much Caffeine Ups Risk of Kidney Stones        Feature: Harry Potter cast a spell on generation of Canadians           Six North Korean Professor Sent to Canada                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10295153          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 15       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 8       Images: 29       Comments: 8    8       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10295153), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10295153 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10295153 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10295153-earthquake-rumbles-off-vancouver-island.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         