Firefighters make progress against Texas wildfire; Gov. Perry returns to the campaign trail - The Washington Post









Print Subscription


Conversations
Today's Paper






Going Out Guide




Jobs




Cars




Real Estate




Rentals




Classifieds







Home


Politics





Campaign 2012
			


Congress
			


Courts &
				Law


The Fed Page


Health Care








				Polling
			


White House
			


Who Runs Gov


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

The Fix | Chris Cillizza
2chambers | Felicia Sonmez
Federal Eye | Ed O’Keefe
Fact Checker | Glenn Kessler
















Opinions





All Opinions


PostPartisan


Left-Leaning


Right-Leaning


Toles
				Cartoons
			








				Telnaes
				Animations


Local


Columnist Index












Local





DC: 
Politics
| News


MD: 
Politics
| Communities


VA: 
Politics
| Communities


Crime
			


Education
			







On Faith/Local
			


Obituaries
			


Traffic & Commuting
			


Weather
			


Blogs & Columns
			


The Root DC
			





Top Blogs

Dr. Gridlock | Weekend travel and transit
College Inc. | The ups and downs of rankings
State of NoVa | Scenes from the devastating flood
Answer Sheet | Study: Standards don’t mention 9/11









Sports






				Redskins/NFL



				Capitals/NHL


Wizards/NBA


Nationals/MLB



				DC United/Soccer








				Colleges


AllMetSports


Other Sports


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Capitals Insider| Katie Carrera
Nationals Journal| Adam Kilgore
Soccer Insider| Steven Goff
The Insider| Mike Jones









National





Corrections


Energy & Environment


Health & Science


Higher Education


National Security







On Faith
			


On Leadership


Innovations


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Ideas@Innovations
Post Leadership
Under God
Checkpoint Washington









World





Africa
			


The
				Americas


Asia &
				Pacific


Europe
			


Middle East
			







National Security


War Zones
			


Special Reports


Checkpoint Washington












Business






				Economy
			


Industries


Local Business


Markets


Policy
				&
				Regulation







Technology
			


World
				Business


Blogs & Columns


Innovations


Special Reports





Top Blogs

Ezra Klein
Post Tech | Cecilia Kang
Faster Forward
Political Economy









Investigations
















Lifestyle





Advice
			


Carolyn Hax
			


Food
			


Home & Garden
			


Style
			







Travel
			


Weddings
			


Wellness
			


Magazine


KidsPost





Top Blogs

On Parenting | Janice D’Arcy
Arts Post | Jacqueline Trescott
The Checkup | Jennifer LaRue Huget & Rob Stein
All We Can Eat | Food section









Entertainment





Books


Celebrities


Comics
			


Going Out Guide


Horoscopes







Movies


Museums
			


Puzzles
			


Theater & Dance


TV
			





Top Blogs

Reliable Source | Roxanne Roberts & Amy Argetsinger
TV Column | Lisa de Moraes
Celebritology | Jen Chaney
Click Track | Chris Richards & David Malitz









Multimedia





Innovations



				Photos
			



				Videos
			



























The Washington Post
The Washington Post












Corrections
Energy & Environment
Health & Science
Higher Education
National Security
On Faith
			
On Leadership
Innovations
Blogs & Columns






In the News


5 myths: Cheney


Ron Paul


NBC hacked


Terror threat


Krauthammer

























???initialComments:true! pubdate:09/07/2011 03:02 EDT! commentPeriod:3! commentEndDate:9/10/11 3:2 EDT! currentDate:9/10/11 7:29 EDT! allowComments:false! displayComments:true!







Top StoriesHide me


















F-16 pilot remembers Sept. 11 mission






Speech is opening round of White House offensive








Redskins vs. Giants: Five storylines to follow






What have we learned about religion post-9/11?








Abbas vows to proceed with statehood bid






Howard, Morehouse rekindle rivalry








NASA needs more astronauts, report says






Hear ye! Alexandria choosing a town crier








A cliff diver’s journey






Wal-Mart brings back layaway for holiday








Firefighters make progress against Texas wildfire; Gov. Perry returns to the campaign trail






View Photo Gallery —  Wildfires fueled by extremely dry conditions and strong winds destroyed dozens of homes in Oklahoma City and North Texas.






Text Size

Print
E-mail
Reprints












						By  Associated Press, 







BASTROP, Texas — Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins.
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised debate.




 Loading...

Comments


Weigh In
Corrections?




















Video




A massive wildfire has burned nearly 500 homes near the Texas capital as thousands were forced to leave their homes. Texas governor Rick Perry visited evacuees from the Bastrop fire Monday. (Sept. 6)









The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is perilously dry because of one of the state’s most severe droughts on record. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. A total of at 1,188 homes have been destroyed by wildfires in Texas in the last week, including the 800 lost in the Bastrop-area blaze, according to the Texas Forest Service.One of the two people killed in the Bastrop-area fire was identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out bodies.Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency’s incident commander, said he didn’t know if there were any more dead, but “if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them.”Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county.Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.The outbreak has made this the state’s costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn’t left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires.Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency’s finance officer.









Continued

1

2

Next Page















EmailTumblr
Reddit
Stumbleupon
Digg
Delicious
















Weigh In

Discussion Policy


About Discussions, Badges


 


 








Newest first


Oldest first


Most Recommended first












SuperFan
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Culture Connoisseur
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Fact Checker
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Washingtologist
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Writer
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


World Watcher
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.


You must be logged in to report a comment.
Sign in here


You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
Sign in here


Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
More about badgesGet a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused".  If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.




+ SHARE THIS DEBATE
























The Post Most: NationMost-viewed stories, videos and galleries int he past two hours



Most Popular

After 9/11, woman who was at Pentagon remains skeptical
NBC News hacked on Twitter
Woman who lost parents on 9/11 will always wonder: Why?
Homes and businesses swamped in Pa., NY; most of the 100,000 evacuees wait for th
New Mexico officer videotaped having sex on car accused of propositioning DWI sus




Top Videos

With no ammunition, pilot ordered to take down United 93
Days of rain cause deadly flooding in Northeast
Md. town still under water
A view of the 9/11 Memorial reflecting pools
NASA orbiter spots footprints on the moon




Top Galleries

Images from 9/11 and the aftermath
Supernovas of a generation
Rebuilding the World Trade Center
Marine predators on the move
U.S. military dogs in action








Live Discussions

			There are no discussions scheduled today.
		




Ask Now


Why cohabitation is worse for a child than divorce
Live Q&A, 1 p.m. ETResearcher discusses why cohabitation has replaced divorce as the biggest source of instability for American families.



 
Weekly schedule, past shows


Connect with the Post




























Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post





Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post



Twitter: Follow us on Twitter



RSS: Subscribe to our RSS feeds



Alerts: Sign up for news alerts



Mobile: Washington Post on the go



App Store: View our iPhone applications



 
Today's Paper






Full Paper
Metro
Style
Sports

Updated newspaper stories



National Newsletters
Sign-up for e-mail newsletters and alerts and get the news you need delivered directly to your inbox.
 




Economy & Business News Alerts
Behind the Government Showdown
National News Alerts




The Most
Today's Headlines & Columnists








See all Washington Post Newsletters


Featured Reads

Right Turn
Jennifer Rubin offers reported opinion from a conservative perspective.



The Root D.C.
A new space for the Washington area’s African-American community.



Political Economy
Where Washington meets big business.








Network News      
   				Hide this






Most Popular
Friends' Activity
Most Popular
Most Tweeted
Twitter Activity





Most Popular Right Now






Your Friends’ Most Recent Activity



















Follow The Post:
Facebook
Twitter
View More Activity



















Featured Advertiser LinksOil Spill, Mesothelioma Class Action, Fosamax Fracture, Asbestos & Veterans , Actos Bladder Cancer>>Topamax Side Effects, Mesothelioma Treatment, Yaz Blood Clot, Asbestos cancer, Actos, Mesothelioma Symptoms>>Join Pres. Obama. It's time to do it again.>>Are you in? Join Barack Obama's campaign now.>>Help Pres. Obama keep moving America forward.>>Join the 2012 campaign at BarackObama.com>>Looking to buy a home? Visit TWP Real Estate section for the latest open houses.>>Make Your Vanguard Investing More Profitable - Free Research Report Reveals Best & Worst Funds>>































Top national Stories
			

People Also Read
			

Most Popular Videos





















After 9/11, woman who was at Pentagon remains skeptical
Steve Hendrix 
					



NBC News hacked on Twitter
Melissa Bell 
					


Woman who lost parents on 9/11 will always wonder: Why?
Dan Zak 
					


Homes and businesses swamped in Pa., NY; most of the 100,000 evacuees wait for the all-clear
Associated Press 
					




New Mexico officer videotaped having sex on car accused of propositioning DWI suspect
Associated Press 
					


What have we learned about religion post-9/11?
Elizabeth Tenety 
					


Ground Zero after attack is seen from space in newly-released image
Melissa Bell 
					


New Yorkers take latest terrorism threat in stride on eve of 9/11 anniversary
Colum Lynch 
					




The horror of death and the hope of resurrection
Mark Driscoll 
					


Texans wary as drought, heat, and La Nina create perfect recipe for more fast-moving wildfires
Associated Press 
					


Time for religion to be a force for good
Karen Armstrong 
					


Cheney: No regrets on criticism of Obama policy
Jason Ukman 
					




Investigators search for motive in deadly Nev. IHOP shooting, build profile of gunman
Associated Press 
					


Innovation and the game of love
David Linden 
					



Owling: The new planking?
Elizabeth Flock 
					


Attention Governor Perry: Evolution is a fact
Richard Dawkins 
					




Report says about 150,000 immigrant detainees have been deported without seeing a lawyer
Associated Press 
					


Man who lost wife on 9/11 finds way to fill the void
Joel Achenbach 
					


Brightest supernova in decades serves up cosmic clues for astronomers
Brian Vastag 
					


9/11 widow still trying to find her new normal since the Pentagon attack
Eli Saslow 
					






































Ways you can get us

Mobile
Apps
Newsletter & alerts
RSS
Post Store
Facebook
Photo Store
Twitter
Washington Post Live



The Washington Post

About Us
Work for us
Community Relations
PostPoints
Corrections/Suggestions
Archive
Contact the Ombudsman
Report a problem



Web site

Make us your homepage
Digital Guidelines

Newspaper

Subscribe
Home delivery service
e-Replica
Reprints



Advertise

In the newspaper
On the web site
Mobile
Events

The Washington Post Company

Post Company web sites



Partners

Slate
Who Runs Gov
Express Night Out
Captial Business
El Tiempo Latino
The Root
Foreign Policy
Trove


Post Tickets
Capitol Deal
Service Alley
Post Master Class
WP Live
Student Advisory



© 1996- The Washington Post
User Agreement and Privacy Policy
Rights and Permissions


Help
Contact Us
Ad Choices


















