(In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico    Mexico City :  Mexico
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By marvendumaguit            2 0      
Views: 645
       (Check It Out! 15+ Photos!) MEXICO CITY, Mexico- After the Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Manila, 30,000 Mexican fans gathered to witness Pound 4 Pound King Manny Pacquiao along with their countryman the three-division world champion Juan Manuel Marquez at the press conference which took place at the 'Monument to the Revolution' in Mexico's capital.  Paquiao receives a warm welcome from the Mexicans just like Marquez' experienced in their press conference in Manila. Pacquiao vs Marquez trilogy fight is under Top Rank Promotion in association with MP Promotions, Marquez Boxing, Tecate and MGM Grand which will take place at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada on Saturday night, Nov. 12, 2011.  Images courtesy of Chris Farina-Top Rank, Getty Images, AP and Demotix Images. See Pics!!!        1 of 48        
30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico
     
marvendumaguit is based in Manila, National Capital Region, Philippines,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  Philippines (45.3%) United States of America (42.2%) Canada (6.1%) Portugal (3.1%) 9 other countries (2.5%)           READ MORE: press conference, Juan Manuel Marquez, Manny Pacquiao, Pacquiao-Marquez, mexico, fans gathered, bout, Pacquiao   More News From: Mexico City :  Mexico      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
It should another boxing classic when these two boxers meet in the ring.
            Reply  Posted By     marvendumaguit
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Yes George, the fight of 'Pure fighters'. Thanks for visiting!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Manny Pacquiao will Run As Vice President on 2016 National Election By: nielica_01      After the world press tour in Mexico for Pacquiao and Marquez fight on November 12, 2011 at the MGM Grand arena in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Representative Manny Pacquiao announces his plan of running as Vice President of the Philippines on 2016 National election.
He said, by that time he's already retired and no more boxing fights to happen. He plans ...  1 day ago     Manny Pacquiao eyes vice presidency in 2016 polls By: skooter      Skooter reporting 09/09/11
Filipino boxing icon and Sarangani Rep. Manny Pacquiao had
announced that he is eyeing the vice presidency in the 2016 elections. He said
this in the middle of a warm welcome in Mexico during his world press tour
with opponent Juan Manuel Marquez.
In the same press interview, Pacquiao said he would seek the
...  1 day ago     Images: Manny Pacquiao and Manuel Marquez Brought Huge Crowd In Mexico ... By: nielica_01      The Press tour of Paquiao and Marquez brougth huge crowd. The crowd is estimated around 30,000.
Fans brought warm welcome for the two. The Mexico Press tour was the 4th tour after Phillipines, New york and Los Angeles.
The tour promotes the the fight to happen on November 12, 2011 at MGM Grand Arena.  1 day ago     Pacquiao vs Marquez 3 New York Press Conference Promo Tour By: nielica_01      Manny Pacquiao and Juan Manuel Marquez attended the press conference in New York as promotion of their upcoming fight.
Manny was asked by reporters about fighting Mayweather soon. He claims that he's willing to fight Mayweather because fans love to. 
On other hand he claims he dont need to fight Mayweather, “I don’t really ...  2 days ago     Manny Pacquiao vs Juan Manuel Marquez III World Press Tour Set To Kick ... By: taimur1      The long-awaited trilogy showdown between rivals Manny Pacquiao and Juan Manuel Marquez is on the horizon. To begin the countdown to the bout, a 4-city press tour around the globe has been arranged. The tour will begin on September 3, 2011 in Manila, The Philippines. It then moves to New York Cityon Semptember 6th, Los Angeles, California on ...  6 days ago     20+ Images from Pacquiao - Marquez III World Press Tour 2011 in Manila ... By: marvendumaguit      (Check It Out! 20+ Photos!) MANILA, Philippines- Here are exclusive images and photographs from Pacquiao - Marquez III press conference which took place at the Manila Hotel and Quirino Grand Stand at Rizal Park in Manila City on Saturday afternoon, September 3, 2011.
The two fighters will met fans and media for answering interviews regarding ...  7 days ago     Pacquiao - Marquez Press Conference At Manila Hotel, Manila City By: jamespabalan      Pound for pound king Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao - Juan Manuel Marquez press conference at Manila hotel, Manila City.
Juan Manuel Marquez made headlines yesterday after his arrival in Manila. Marquez will be facing off with Pacquiao for a third time this coming November 12th at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Marquez was asked if he will change ...  7 days ago     Mexican Fighter Juan Manuel Marquez Hits Manila - Arrival Photos 15+ By: marvendumaguit      (Check It Out! 15+ Pictures!) MANILA, Philippines- Mexican fighter and Pacman's nemisis no other than the three-division champion Juan Manuel Marquez arrived and hits the country's capital city along with his team and Top Rank promoter Bob Arum yesterday.
The 38-year-old Mexican pugilist and future hall of famer is in the country as part of '...  7 days ago     1000 Cops On Heightened Alert For Pacquiao-Marquez Face Off in Manila By: nielica_01      The scheduled Face off between Rep. Manny Pacquiao and Manuel Marquez on September 3 at Quirino Grandstand. The Manila Mayor  and Manila Police District head Chief Superintendent Roberto Rongavillto appoint at least 1000 police people in the vicinity of the event.
Mayor Lim is expecting fans and people who will witness the first leg of the ...  8 days ago     MARQUEZ VERSUS PACMAN WORLD PRESS TOUR By: anterosales      WORLD PRESS TOUR OF PACMAN AND MARQUEZ TO DRAW CROWDS IN
More than 100,000 fans are expected to troop to the Quirino Grandstand in Manila this coming Saturday, September 3 for the World Press Tour of the much awaited trilogy fight of People's champ Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao and Mexican challenger Juan Manuel Marquez. 
Manila Police Distri...  8 days ago     Manila Mayor Presents Boxer Marquez Symbolic Key To The City By: dunite      
 
Mayor Afredo Lim of the City of Manila has presented Mexican
boxer Juan Manuel Marquez a symbolic key to the city during a courtesy call by
the champion at the City Hall on Thursday, GMA News said.
Marquez was in Manila to promote his upcoming fight with boxing
icon Manny Pacquiao at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in La Vegas on November ...  8 days ago     Juan Manuel Marquez and party arrived Manila for boxing promotion By: nicanorr       
 
Hundreds of people and TV cameras greeted Juan Manuel Marquez and party at the airport as they climbed off the plane on
Thus started the promo tour to build up the mileage of the upcoming 3rd encounter versus Mexican Juan Manuel “Dinamita” Marquez vs the Filipino congressman-boxer Manny “Pacman” Pacqui...  8 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Manny Pacquiao eyes vice presidency in 2016 polls  
GMA News
 In the same report, Pacquiao said he would seek the gubernatorial post in Sarangani province in Mindanao before making a bid for the country's second top government post. In 2007, Manny ran for congressman in General Santos City but lost to a veteran...    Pacquiao wants Philippine vice presidency  
France24
 Eight-time world boxing champion Manny Pacquiao (L) of Philippines with Mexican boxer Juan Manuel Marquez (R) in Mexico City on September 8. Pacquiao has announced he wants to retire from the sport and run for vice president of the Philippines in...    Manny Pacquiao on Floyd Mayweather, retirement  
Los Angeles Times
 14 am It would easily be considered the fight of the decade. In one corner, Manny Pacquiao, widely considered by boxing websites to be the best pound-for-pound fighter in the world. In the other corner, Floyd Mayweather Jr., who is undefeated in his...    Pacquiao says he can't run for VP in 2016 due to age concern  
GMA News
 A report on GMA News Live said Manny clarified that he cannot run for the second highest post of the land because of age qualification. In a chance interview upon his arrival before dawn Saturday at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport, Pacquiao...    The Week in Boxing: News on Pacquiao-Marquez III, Klitschko-Adamek  
La Prensa
 Fri, Sep 9, 2011 Pacquiao-Marquez III promotion in full swing          Manny Pacquiao (L) and Mexico's Juan Manuel Marquez (R) will meet for a third time Nov. 12 in Las Vegas. Mexico will go mano a mano once again in a battle between two of...    Paquiao mulls running for vice president in 2016 polls  
GMA News
 Hinting he is going to retire from boxing, Pacquiao said in an interview aired on dzBB: "Come 2016 I am going to run for vice president... no more boxing at that time." The report also Quoted Pacquiao as saying that before running for the vice...   More Related Stories     Images    >         1    1 Image Source: allvoices  30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico        2    2 Image Source: allvoices  30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico        3    3 Image Source: allvoices  30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico        4    4 Image Source: allvoices  30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico        5    5 Image Source: allvoices  30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico        6    6 Image Source: allvoices  30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico      More Related Images    More From Mexico City         Mexican police find 6 bodies and one survivor in a house         Mexican President Felipe Calderon held a meeting with the Dalai Lama        The Dalai Lama will participate in Monterrey Chespirito an act for peace         Paulina Rubio convicted of contempt and public disorder           Oil rose on supply concerns        Carlos Loret de Mola and Laura G live in a cabin romance        Fighting for a responsible budget        MIranda Kerr Stunning In Mexico RunWay (see stunning pics)         Mexico is the largest consumer of soft drinks in the world        Netflix: Rent movies online and series begins in Mexico on Monday       Civil associations require taxing soda to combat obesity        Mexico defeat left doubts about the ability of Chile           Fashion magnate, Jessica Simpson wants to dominate the world!                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10291296          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 9       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 50       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10291296), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10291296 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10291296 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “(In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World Tour in Mexico” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10291296-in-pictures-30000-fans-gathered-at-pacquiao-marquez-iii-world-tour-in-mexico.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         