US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops    Kansas City :  KS :  USA
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By BMcPherson            6 0      
Views: 522
        Friday Sept. 9, 2011 UTC 18:08 US consumers are set to see another steep rise in food prices as a hot summer has contributed to a stunting of the corn crop. The early flooding of cropland and the worry over frost damage to late maturing corn fields has the Tucson Citizen is sounding the alarm bells about a 70% increase year over year of the price of corn. Currently, the price for the yellow cereal is pegged at $7 per bushel. According to Bob Breshnahan, CEO of agricultural consulting company Trilateral, corn is the driver for food prices throughout the USA. Corn is used directly for human food; used for animal feed; widely converted to corn syrup, corn starch and corn sweeteners; huge amounts of corn are now converted to biofuels; biodegradable garbage bags are now made from it. In addition to the American demand for corn and corn products, there is increasing demand from foreign countries for the grain as their economies strengthen and their citizens can afford more food. The recession that the USA is mired in now won’t see a lessening of demand for this foundation food. Growers planted more this spring and reduced the acreage of soy and wheat, forcing prices for those grains to rise as well. The price to the average consumer hasn’t hit home yet, but increases in the range of 5 to 7% are predicted as the price increases work their way through the system. “Wells Fargo economist Michael Swanson doesn’t expect the sluggish global economy to offset demand in developing countries. Swanson expects corn prices of $6.90 to $7.90 a bushel the next 12 months to help push up retail food prices 4% next year, on top of about 4% this year.” Tucson Citizen Some are calling to an end to federal subsidies for ethanol production. In the past few years, billions of taxpayer dollars have gone to pay farmers to grow corn for fuel, diverting the grain from the food market and fueling food inflation. A combination of adverse weather, increased demand and commodification of food have all contributed to the rapid rise in grain prices in 2011. To paraphrase Dorothy as she spoke to Toto when surveying the unfamiliar landscape, “It’s not just in Kansas anymore.”        1 of 9              The US corn crop has a disappointing harvest due to adverse weather conditions.          
BMcPherson is based in Nanaimo, British Columbia, Canada,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (71.1%) Canada (6.3%) United Kingdom (2.9%) Portugal (2.7%) 27 other countries (14.9%)           READ MORE: corn crop, tax subsidies, ethanol production, commodities, food prices, corn price, food price   More News From: Kansas City :  KS :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 6            Reply  Posted By     Dava Castillo
|
about 16 hours
ago
  
Thank you for the report Barbara.I was re-reading Adam Smith this morning, capitalist that he was, and he believed in strong agricultural growth citing that revolutions of war and governments easily dry up the sources of wealth which arise from commerce only, but that agriculture is much more durable and cannot be destroyed except by violent convulsions of hostile and barbarous nations. Redirecting corn production from food to ethanol surely makes us hostile to growing needs to feed not just the U.S. but the world.
            Reply  Posted By     Veronica Roberts 
|
about 15 hours
ago
  
The quest for alternate sources of energy is can be a dual edge sword. We look at the famine in Somalia and most think it is far removed from 'us Westerners' but look at what's happening around us---a food shortage is not that far-fetched!
            Reply  Posted By     itobin53
|
about 14 hours
ago
  
considering all the subsidies US farmers get, there should never be a spike in prices. This is just another case of price gouging thanks to 'no regulations'.
            Reply  Posted By     Robert Weller
|
about 13 hours
ago
  
Well we can drink tea. Sadly, I prefer coffee. And thankfully wine is much more vigorous, second only to ...
            Reply  Posted By     George McGinn
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Why are we subsidizing the crops when at the pumps they also get .51-cents a gallon in additional money? Corn subsidies are more than 40 percent (about $7 billion of the total $20 billion allotted), and the only crop I know that gets money at both the development (growing) and end-use (from gasoline taxes).Great article, and I hope it gets people asking questions, just like I am. Something has to change. Since I lived my summers on a cattle ranch who grew corn for winter feed, it's a crop that will drain all nutrients out of the soil to the point where nothing will grow.
            Reply  Posted By     crazeesheep
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
would that have been gm corn by any chance?with the use of large tracts of agricultural land for growing *bio-fuels* this has takena huge amount of food out of the food chain,Somalia has been a *managed* tragedy, see here;http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/9928530-somalia-the-real-cause-of-famineand this formula has been replicated wherever the NWO see fit to do their *special* work !
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Rice rally losing steam on bumper supply By: FaujiMunda      The large global rice supplies and the reluctance of buyers to `splashing in a market many see as too high a price asked for put the brakes on a collecting that has seen the paper clip to 1-1/2 year high this week and these interests raised for food inflation in Asia.The conjecture over the aggressive intervention by the new government in ...  6 days ago     The sustainable development perspectives for food crisis and biofuels By: dikkysun      
The
sustainable development perspectives for food crisis and biofuels
Biofuels,
fuels of renewable energy experience, a growing interest worldwide in recent
decades, mainly as a substitute for fossil fuels. There are two types of
biofuel demand in the global market for ethanol and biodiesel. Ethanol, Dell Studio
1537 battery ...  11 days ago     Monsanto Now Hitting on U.S. Consumers By: SpiritSong      
Monsanto is set to wreak further havoc on the health of
Americans knowing no bounds as it strengthens its control over global food
supply. The world's biggest vegetable GM seed producer will now inflict the
U.S. food market with GM sweet corn seeds this autumn. The logic of this beyond
profits is evasive as currently the U.S. is ...  about 1 month ago     Targeting Gaps in the Food Supply Chain: Going Beyond Agricultural ... By: LouiseRoys      
Agricultural production is only the first step in
moving the world's food from farm to fork, according to Nourishing the Planet, a
project of the Worldwatch Institute. The other links in the food chain -
harvesting, packaging, storing, transporting, marketing, and selling - ensure
...  about 1 month ago     Global food inflation to return after brief respite By: BURHANAALI      CHICAGO:
Red-hot food inflation that has vexed policy makers around the world
seemed to take a breather last month, when corn and wheat prices tumbled
on reports that crop shortages were easing, Reuters said.The sell-off was also driven by global economic worries that prompted funds to exit grains in droves.But prices are climbing again, and ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest    Watch England vs Argentina Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 | OnlineLiveSports....  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 4 hours ago
  Watch England vs Argentina Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 To enjoy England vs Argentina live stream internet PC TV HD video Rugby live game. Can to get live instant streaming internet TV link from here. This game will be ...   England vs Argentina Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September HD TV Link | OnlineLiveSports.......  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 4 hours ago
  England vs Argentina Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September HD TV Link To enjoy England vs Argentina live stream internet PC TV HD video Rugby live game. Can to get live instant streaming internet TV link from here. This game will be played ...   Watch France vs Japan Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 | OnlineLiveSports.net  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 4 hours ago
  Watch France vs Japan Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 To enjoy France vs Japan live stream internet PC TV HD video Rugby live game. Can to get live instant streaming internet TV link from here. This game will be played on 10 ...   Watch Japan vs France Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 | OnlineLiveSports.net  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 5 hours ago
  Watch Japan vs France Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 To enjoy Japan vs France live stream internet PC TV HD video Rugby live game. Can to get live instant streaming internet TV link from here. This game will be played on 10 ...   Watch France vs Japan Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 | OnlineLiveSports.net  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 6 hours ago
  Watch France vs Japan Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 To enjoy France vs Japan live stream internet PC TV HD video Rugby live game. Can to get live instant streaming internet TV link from here. This game will be played on 10 ...   Watch Japan vs France Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 | OnlineLiveSports.net  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 6 hours ago
  Watch Japan vs France Live Streaming Rugby World Cup on 10 September at 2011 To enjoy Japan vs France live stream internet PC TV HD video Rugby live game. Can to get live instant streaming internet TV link from here. This game will be played on 10 ...      12345 >    More Related Stories     Images    >         A field of corn is shown in ...    A field of corn is shown in ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A field of corn is shown in Iowa        The UN's food agency said food ...    The UN's food agency said food ... Image Source: www.afp.com The UN's food agency said food prices have fallen over the past two years        A farmer plants corn in ...    A farmer plants corn in ... Image Source: www.afp.com A farmer plants corn in Luxemburg, Iowa        Dried up corn is seen in a ...    Dried up corn is seen in a ... Image Source: www.afp.com Dried up corn is seen in a field in eastern China, where a record drought ...        Stunted corn plants grow in a ...    Stunted corn plants grow in a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Stunted corn plants grow in a field in Montbert, western France, as farmers ...        Prices for rice and corn ...    Prices for rice and corn ... Image Source: www.afp.com Prices for rice and corn doubled last week at markets in the capital ...      More Related Images    More From Kansas City          US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Brad Keselowski Wins NASCAR, Gets Broken Ankle        Tiger Woods needs to make a comeback soon!       Triunfo Del Amor Capitulo 174          James Hawkins sentenced to death        (Video) 5 Yr Old Girl May Face Murder Charges For Drowning 18 Mth Old Toddler: How Young Is Too Young?        Murder Trial Bombshell Accusations in Casey Anthony Trial        Zsa Zsa Gabor is unresponsive, hospitalized, husband says          Obama made a special vist to Kentucky to meet Bin Laden raid team!!        Dear Diary        Irregular Heartbeat Try Yoga       videos.sportyall.com stoped so switch to sportyhub.com April Fool Video         Google says it will make Kansas City, Kan., first site of its ultra-fast broadband network               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10292428          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 27       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 1       Images: 12       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10292428), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10292428 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10292428 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10292428-us-corn-prices-surge-with-news-of-stunted-crops.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        