What do they know that we don't know?





Home
About
Sitemap




News Cycle London Riots

US Credit Downgrade

Top Headlines


State Fair Surprise!
IS IT HIM?
90 homes raided, 600 arrested in Detroit...
RON PAUL WEEKEND WINNER IN AMES?
SARAH LEAVES MEDIA SEARCHING...
MARK OF THE BEAST? Electronic skin tattoo has medical, gaming, spy uses...
MARK OF THE BEAST? Electronic tattoo has medical, gaming, spy uses...
Gingrich: Take your 'gotcha questions' and...
THE BACHMANN, ROMNEY SHOW
'You Sound Like Obama To Me'...



 






What do they know that we don’t know?

by Joshua Unseth on March 23rd, 2010 

 
	   1 Comment



After yesterday’s “historic” vote, I ran over to Planned Parenthood’s website to see what they’d posted. Sure enough, there was a page on their site dedicated to celebrating passage of the new allowing healthcare bill. The page declares that this is a HUGE victory for women’s health, which, it makes sure to say, includes abortion.
What’s more, Planned Parenthood gives us a little insight into something you may not have known. Yesterday, Stupak voted for the bill with the condition that BHOPOTUS (Barack Hussein Obama, President of the United States), sign an Executive order mandating that this bill not fund aboritons. Guess what! The Stupak language, apparently, isn’t in the order. “WHAT?” You say. “BHOPOTUS lied to his own teammate?”
It certainly looks that way.


									Categories: 
									Conservative


											This entry was posted
																						on Tuesday, March 23rd, 2010 at 12:04 am											and is filed under Conservative.
											You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
					
																							You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
					                        








Congressman Hank Johnson (D-GA) is very concerned… »




Comments


Trackback URL 








uberVU - social comments 

March 23, 2010 at 3:42 am
Social comments and analytics for this post…
This post was mentioned on Twitter by jerry3741: RT @tweetdrudge: The great bait and switch…http://cli.gs/UJYDqX...









Leave Comment

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Email (required)

Website








Commenting Options
Alternatively, you can create an avatar that will appear whenever you leave a comment on a Gravatar-enabled blog.












Tweet




What's this?Bitcoin Plus













