Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?    Washington :  DC :  USA
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By itobin53            7 0      
Views: 429
        September 9, 2011 President Obama laid out his plan to create jobs on Thursday night before a joint session of Congress. The $447 billion bill called the American Jobs Act has economists stating publicly the Obama plan would increase GDP by as much as 2% and create some 2 million jobs. But will republicans, who some believe have been deliberately hurting the economy just to make Obama look bad, do what is best for the country and put their political vendetta against the president aside, or will they block all doors to economic recovery as long as Obama site in the White House? "Even before the speech, Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.), reacting to press reports, said more stimulus spending was not the answer for the nation's economic ills," according to The Hill. However there is something to be said for the effectiveness of government spending in stimulating the economy. "When FDR was inaugurated in 1933, four years after the stock market crash that launched the Great Depression, the unemployment rate was a shocking 25%. To address the job crisis of his time, President Roosevelt created the Works Progress Administration (WPA) to put millions of Americans to work quickly in useful government jobs," according to the Daily Kos. The WPA created 8 million jobs and built 651,087 miles of roads, 124,031 bridges, 125,110 public buildings, 8,192 parks, and 853 airports. Government has proven that it can play a positive role in creating jobs. The only thing stopping a repeat of the highly successful 1933 WPA job creation program - is the 2011 Republican Party.        1 of 39        
U.S. President Obama delivers remarks at the University of Richmond on the American Jobs Act in Richmond
         
itobin53 is based in Tampa, Florida, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (74.5%) Canada (5.6%) Portugal (3.2%) United Kingdom (2.9%) 20 other countries (11.7%)           READ MORE: job creation, Jobs Bill, Republican Congress, WPA, infrastructure projects, President, Jobs, Republicans, Public, job, economic, unemployment, Republican   More News From: Washington :  DC :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 10            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 13 hours
ago
  
Well written article, keep up the good job rated!
            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 13 hours
ago
  
Well written article, keep up the good job rated!
            Reply  Posted By     Orakul
|
about 12 hours
ago
  
I also think the jobs he wants to create would have a little something to do with it passing. If it is do little jobs like the last stimulus don't allow it. If it builds roads, bridges, other infrastructure needs then I will be the first to criticize for lack of action. Let's see what kind he wants then rejoice or cry. Nevertheless, well written article.
            Reply  Reply By     itobin53
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Yes Obama has already said that rebuilding roads and bridges is part of his jobs program.
            Reply  Posted By     Dava Castillo
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
thanks for the report Itobin.This is the first time President Obama is sending a bill to Congress, so they must realize he means for it to be passed. Also, he is taking the message on the road to the loyal opposition's states including Mr. Boehner's state. If ever there was a time for Democrats to voice their support, it is now.
            Reply  Posted By     itobin53
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
if the GOP does not pass this bill it will remove ALL doubt that they are deliberately trying to hurt he entire country just to make Obama look bad.
            Reply  Posted By     Adrian Holman
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Fortunately, the GOP will be forced to not block this bill by the IMF.
            Reply  Posted By     jiehunas
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
===== { w w w }{better-----wholesaler }{ us } =======welcome to this website----free ship ping accept pay pal----
            Reply  Posted By     Surya Gaire
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
To be honest,it was interesting to read your article
            Reply  Posted By     chungtucuong
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for the news rated up, please also comment on my news.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Obama Calls On Congress To Pass ‘American Jobs Act’ By: dunite      
Speaking before a joint session of Congress on Thursday
President Barack Obama urged the legislators to "stop the political circus
and actually do something to help the economy" by quickly approving the
$447 billion package of measures, known as the ‘American Jobs Act,’ so he can
sign it into law, CNN said.
Obama said the ...  about 8 hours ago     Can Obama get his jobs bill passed? As he promised  By: alic10      President Obama on Friday took his new $447 billion jobs plan on the
road, imploring Virginia voters to do whatever it takes -- even using
carrier pigeons, if they have to -- to tell their congressional
representatives to pass the bill.
The president, both in
his Thursday night address before a joint session of Congress and during
his ...  about 16 hours ago     Obama rises to 288,000 million jobs plan  By: anawili      The plan calls for implementation of the approval of Congress, where Democrats control the Senate and the House Republicans
"Putting more people back to work and money in the pockets of working" is the goal of the new package of economic stimulus measuresintroduced urgently this morning for Barack Obama in a joint session of Congress, in a ...  about 17 hours ago     Obama jobs bill set to be next Washington showdown By: sweetsana      
US President Barack Obama has urged lawmakers to put their differences aside and quickly pass his new job creation bill. But with the 2012 presidential vote on the horizon, some Republicans have already vowed to fight the measure.
  about 18 hours ago     Obama asks Congress to approve the plan of $ 447 billion to create ... By: abdelfattah       In a highly anticipated speech at a joint session of Congress, President Barack Obama on Thursday proposed a plan of $ 447 billion (about $ 740 billion) to combat unemployment in the United States. Unemployment is currently at 9.1%, a level considered high by the government itself and remains at this level for several months Obama also announced ...  about 23 hours ago     President Obama unveils US jobs plan By: GoharAli      
US President Barack Obama has called
on Congress to support his jobs plan aimed at getting the unemployed back to
work and rebuild infrastructure.
Obama, in an address to a joint session of Congress on Thursday, said that the
specifics of his plan would bring money back into US citizens' pockets, urging
the lawmakers to pass the bill ...  1 day ago     Obama tells Congress to pass $447 billion jobs plan By: izabel      WASHINGTON: US President Barack Obama Thursday told
Republicans to halt a “political circus” and immediately pass a $447
billion jobs plan to jolt the stalled economy and cheer a disillusioned
nation.
“These are difficult years for our country. But
we are Americans. We are tougher than the times that we live in, and we
are ...  1 day ago      Obama give speech to the Jobs joint session of Congress By: kensai      
Jobs Give Obama Speech to Joint Session of Congress
WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama urged Congress to end what he calls "a political circus," and immediately pass legislation to help new jobs for the economy and restore the integrity and security of the nation.
 
In excerpts released by the White House Thursday night before the ...  1 day ago     Jobs Obama Speech: President Unveils Economic Plan (Live Updates) By: kensai      
It seems to suggest $ 450 billion plan work Obama .. Deep cuts in labor costs .. However, the Republican Party to cooperate? ..
 
Barack Obama speaks at a joint session of Congress Thursday night to outline a new plan of his administration to create jobs.
 
When the nation's unemployment rate of 9.1 percent, the president makes his ...  1 day ago     Republicans Make Plans To Ditch Obama’s Jobs Speech  By: nazfatima36       
Despite the posturing and maneuvering over switching President Barack
Obama’s jobs speech from Wednesday night, where it would conflict with
the Republican party’s big presidential debate, to Thursday night, not
every congressional Republican is even bothering to show up.
According to Roll Call,
Geo  1 day ago     Obama Seeks Payroll Tax Cut for Small Businesses, Administration Memo ... By: aniskhan26      President Barack Obama will propose cutting payroll taxes for small businesses as part of a more than $300 billion plan to re-ignite the economy and spur hiring, according to an administration memo obtained by Bloomberg News.The business tax cut will be part of a package of measures Obama will lay out in a speech to Congress tonight, along with ...  1 day ago     Jobs Giving Obama Speech to Joint Session of Congress By: kensai      
WASHINGTON - hard to solve the ailing economy, was President Barack Obama calling for support from a divided Congress on Thursday night for a battery of 300 billion dollars of ideas to create jobs quickly and keep more money into the pockets of Americans discouraged. His message to Republican lawmakers: This is your mess to clean, too.
 
...  1 day ago      Obama to make things complicated:“$400 billion” By: ahmedibrahem      
On Wednesday, CBS News learned that the president's jobs and growth package now could top $400 billion.
 
Obama will summon the grandeur of a rare joint session of Congress to lay out a plan for middle class tax cuts, infrastructure spending, help for the unemployed and the passage of trade deals designed to boost US exports.
 
...  1 day ago     Reports Obama will announce his new economic plan $ 400 billion. By: mohamedabdelfattah       
Preparing U.S. President Barack Obama to announce his economic plan Thursday before the new congressmen, the plan is confirmed by sources from which the Democratic Party that could cost up to $ 400 billion, in order to revitalize the U.S. economy and create more jobs.  A source from the Democratic Party, told CNN that the U.S. plan, ...  1 day ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Obama Challenges Lawmakers to Pass Jobs Plan  
Voice of America
 President Barack Obama is in Richmond, Virginia to repeat his call for Congress to pass a nearly $450 billion job creation plan. President Obama outlined the American Jobs Act on Thursday in a speech before a joint session of Congress.  He said the...    Obama's proposals face a tough road in Congress  
The Tribune
 Obama's coming job-creation proposals already drawing fire Obama's coming job-creation proposals already drawing fire Under pressure to move the needle on the nation's stubborn unemployment rate, President Barack Obama is expected to call next week...    Obama to Congress: Americans want action now on jobs  
Acushnet Community News
 President Barack Obama urged Congress to end the "political circus" and act to help a nation still facing economic hardship, outlining a $447 billion legislative package that includes tax cuts for working families and small businesses and spending to...    Obama Jobs Plan Bolder Than Expected, But Is It Enough?  
Democracy Now
 Before a joint session of Congress, President Obama laid out a $447 billion package of tax cuts and new government spending Thursday night to help stimulate the economy and create new jobs. His speech comes at a time when 14 million people are...    Obama jobs growth plan calls for action  
Houston Chronicle
 Saying a teetering U.S. economy should not be held hostage to political gamesmanship, President Barack Obama on Thursday laid out a new $447 billion plan to create jobs and jump-start a turnaround. Speaking before a joint session of Congress, Obama...    Where's the oil, House asks Obama  
United Press International
 Congressional Republicans are willing to work with the White House on a jobs plan but the president's focus on energy was lacking, a Republican leader said...President Barack Obama in a speech Thursday to a joint session of Congress outlined a $450...   More Related Stories     Images    >         U.S. President Obama delivers ...    U.S. President Obama delivers ... Image Source: www.reuters.com U.S. President Obama delivers remarks at the University of Richmond on the ...        Obama unveils a new job ...    Obama unveils a new job ... Image Source: www.afp.com Obama unveils a new job creation initiative        Obama's strategy is aimed at ...    Obama's strategy is aimed at ... Image Source: www.afp.com Obama's strategy is aimed at supporting the creation of two million jobs in ...        The Labor Department reported ...    The Labor Department reported ... Image Source: www.afp.com The Labor Department reported the creation of 151,000 jobs in October        President Obama believes job ...    President Obama believes job ... Image Source: www.afp.com President Obama believes job creation and improving economic forecasts are ...        US President Barack Obama ...    US President Barack Obama ... Image Source: www.afp.com US President Barack Obama increased pressure on Republicans over job ...      More Related Images    More From Washington          NASA postponed launch of Twin Moon Probes        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super Committee        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency          BY THE NUMBERS: Solyndra, the Solar Panel Manufacturer, and President Obama         HQ PHOTOS : Jennifer Lopez PANTY UPSKIRT Pics.        Obama was concerned about storm the Israeli embassy in Cairo        Obama proposes an plan for jobs at a cost of $ 447 billion          U.S. alert on the anniversary of the September attacks        President Obama plans to face Congress with ideas on job creation        Barack Obama prepares to unveil his plan for employment        NASA Launched Two probes to Penetrate the secrets of the womb of the Moon          Man who fathered 150 offsprings                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10293791          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 15       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 9       Images: 39       Comments: 10    10       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10293791), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10293791 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10293791 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10293791-will-republicans-block-obama-job-creation-bill.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         