Texas wildfire has destroyed 1,554 homes - Worldnews.com


Explore WN

Photos
Travel
Movies
Photographers
Health
Science
Technology
Cities
Live TV



Login
Edit

























About WN
Contact
Advertising
Feedback
Privacy Policy
© 2011 World News Inc., all Rights Reserved








Texas wildfire has destroyed 1,554 homes






















Tulsa World
2011-09-12: 
                     BASTROP, Texas - Drawn to the quaint central Texas town of Bastrop by the promise of life in a quiet, wooded area, Frank Davis moved into his new home two Saturdays ago. The next day, he and his wife evacuated when a monster wildfire moved in. Now, there's nothing left. "The fire was so hot, there are even panes of glass that melted," said Davis, a 47-year-old home remodeler who came to Bastrop from Austin, about 30 miles away. "It's all gone." The number of homes destroyed by a still-raging wildfire rose Sunday to 1,554 and will increase further as emergency crews enter areas where the blaze has been...
                     more »






Read full article
Post a Comment
Sms this Page



Email this Page



RSS





Previous
Next



Read full article
Back to 'Texas wildfire has destroyed 1,554 homes'





























































Play next
List all Videos
Autoplay
Autorepeat
Shuffle
Replay



Sign up
I have an account, login



clear
restore


list
images




                             








                        

                           

...

                   


                        






















RSS















	The World News (WN) Network, has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to user privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for wn.com, as well as e-mail newsletters.
1. Personal Information Collection and Use
We do not collect personally identifiable information about you, except when you provide it to us. For example, if you submit an inquiry to us or sign up for our newsletter, you may be asked to provide certain information such as your contact details (name, e-mail address, mailing address, etc.).
When you submit your personally identifiable information through wn.com, you are giving your consent to the collection, use and disclosure of your personal information as set forth in this Privacy Policy. If you would prefer that we not collect any personally identifiable information from you, please do not provide us with any such information. We will not sell or rent your personally identifiable information to third parties without your consent, except as otherwise disclosed in this Privacy Policy.

Except as otherwise disclosed in this Privacy Policy, we will use the information you provide us only for the purpose of responding to your inquiry or in connection with the service for which you provided such information. We may forward your contact information and inquiry to our affiliates and other divisions of our company that we feel can best address your inquiry or provide you with the requested service. We may also use the information you provide in aggregate form for internal business purposes, such as generating statistics and developing marketing plans. We may share or transfer such non-personally identifiable information with or to our affiliates, licensees, agents and partners.
We may retain other companies and individuals to perform functions on our behalf. Such third parties may be provided with access to personally identifiable information needed to perform their functions, but may not use such information for any other purpose.
In addition, we may disclose any information, including personally identifiable information, we deem necessary, in our sole discretion, to comply with any applicable law, regulation, legal proceeding or governmental request.
2. E-mail addresses
We do not want you to receive unwanted e-mail from us. We try to make it easy to opt-out of any service you have asked to receive. If you sign-up to our e-mail newsletters we do not sell, exchange or give your e-mail address to a third party.
E-mail addresses are collected via the wn.com web site. Users have to physically opt-in to receive the wn.com newsletter and a verification e-mail is sent. wn.com is clearly and conspicuously named at the point of collection.

If you no longer wish to receive our newsletter and promotional communications, you may opt-out of receiving them by following the instructions included in each newsletter or communication or by e-mailing us at michaelw(at)wn.com
The security of your personal information is important to us. We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information submitted to us, both during registration and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100 percent secure, however. Therefore, though we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

If we decide to change our e-mail practices, we will post those changes to this privacy statement, the homepage, and other places we think appropriate so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we disclose it.
If we make material changes to our e-mail practices, we will notify you here, by e-mail, and by means of a notice on our home page.
3. Third Party Advertisers
The advertising banners and other forms of advertising appearing on this Web site are sometimes delivered to you, on our behalf, by a third party. In the course of serving advertisements to this site, the third party may place or recognize a unique cookie on your browser. For more information on cookies, you can visit www.cookiecentral.com.
4. Business Transfers
As we continue to develop our business, we might sell certain aspects of our entities or assets. In such transactions, user information, including personally identifiable information, generally is one of the transferred business assets, and by submitting your personal information on Wn.com you agree that your data may be transferred to such parties in these circumstances.







London UK +44-207-193-3591 / +44-207-096-1638
Helsinki, Finland  +358-9-2316-4630
New York +1-212-845-9579 / 646-502-8772
San Francisco +1-415-413-0888 / 415-655-1833
Los Angeles  +1-213-985-2670
Montpellier, France  +33-4-6701-4760
Hong Kong, China +852-8191-2790
Sydney, Australia +61-2-8005-8160
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil +55-21-3717-1890














