

	Preparing for wildfires and other disasters -- long before they strike - CreditCards.com





















Living with credit (404)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            New, interesting products (95)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Research, regulation, industry reports (227)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Rewards (37)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Protecting yourself (152)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            The fine print (63)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Credit card miscellany (368)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Add category (1)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Celebrity Money Watch (3)
        
        
        
            
        
         






 Print 


 Email 



Preparing for wildfires and other disasters -- long before they strike


Matt Schulz | 


	September  6, 2011 |	Protecting yourself





As large parts of drought-ridden, wind-blown Central Texas burned, my wife and I realized we needed to talk.
"If we had to evacuate because wildfires were approaching our house," I asked, "what would we take?"
It's just a hypothetical question for us right now, thank heaven. However, that's exactly the time when you should have the conversation -- not when you've just gotten a reverse 911 call telling you to evacuate as a roaring wildfire nears.
According to the U.S. Fire Administration, nearly 7 million acres across the country were burned in more than 78,792 fires in 2009, the latest year for which this data is available. In 2006, nearly 10 million acres burned. But these fires in the Austin area have hit close to home -- literally and figuratively. One of the largest wildfires is in an upscale subdivision just minutes from my house, though it's plenty far enough away from our house for us to be safe. However, we can't say the same about a house that my wife lived in many years ago with her parents, who have also since moved. As I write this blog, we're still unsure whether the house is still standing.
So what would we do if fire came our way? The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) suggests the following:
"Place valuable papers, mementos and anything 'you can't live without' inside the car in the garage, ready for quick departure. Any pets still with you should also be put in the car."
For my wife and I that meant our laptop computer, our important financial documents -- including credit card information, birth certificates and so on -- some old pictures and photo books, my son's favorite stuffed animal and maybe a few other things from his room and that would be about it. It's amazing how little we would ultimately need.
For others, it could mean their wedding dress, artwork, a beloved guitar, a football autographed by a sports hero, old love letters --  anything that, as FEMA said, you can't live without. 
We at CreditCards.com have a checklist of eight key steps to take to prepare your finances for a disaster. This includes keeping cash handy, flood-proofing important papers and so on. 
But disaster preparation is about more than financial documents and sentimental items. Ready.gov, which is run by FEMA, suggests making an emergency supply kit. And the kit's not just for wildfire preparation; it can be useful in case of floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, winter storms and beyond. 
Here's what they say:
"Get an Emergency Supply Kit, which includes items like nonperishable food, water, a battery-powered or hand-crank radio, extra flashlights and batteries. You may want to prepare a portable kit and keep it in your car. This kit should include:
 Copies of prescription medications and medical supplies
 Bedding and clothing, including sleeping bags and pillows;
 Bottled water, a battery-operated radio and extra batteries, a first aid kit, a flashlight; 
 Copies of important documents: driver's license, Social Security card, proof of residence, insurance policies, wills, deeds, birth and marriage certificates, tax records, etc."

My wife and I will likely take some steps in the near future to prepare ourselves for a future disaster. At a minimum, it's likely that we'll write down some sort of checklist of what to grab if we have to evacuate quickly. But for the most part, we'll be thankful that our family and our possessions are safe, and we'll keep those who aren't so lucky and those fighting the fires in our thoughts.







Tags:

austin, cards, credit, disaster, preparation, texas, wildfire




1 Comment(s)




            Brad  said:
        

Horrible!!! Having gone through several fires in Malibu, the Corral Canyon Fire on November 24, 2007 was the one that destroyed my home. IMPORTANT: Homeowners don’t realize that an itemized list is required by your insurer after a loss. Plus, if I had compiled a list prior to my loss, I would have realized I was under insured! This was my families OMG moment. 
IN HIND SIGHT, I WISH I HAD DONE A HOME INVENTORY! This is Job #1 in being prepared.
As part of September’s Disaster Preparedness Month, we are offering DocuHome’s Home Inventory Software for FREE.
http://docuhome.com/index.asp?action=POPSIGNUP&PromoCode=THANKSBRAD 


            September  6, 2011  3:10 PM
        





Leave a comment







Name: 



Email Address:  
  (will not be displayed)


URL: 





Comments (required)





	Please enter the phrase below (NOT case sensitive):
	

      














About


	They're the pieces of plastic we love, and love to hate. Get the latest news, tips, research and more from the CreditCards.com staff.


Archives

All Blogs


Filter by:
    

Blogger
Blog
Month



This month




	
	September 2011
	

    


S
M
T
W
T
F
S












1


2



3





4



5


6



7



8


9



10





11


12



13



14



15



16



17





18



19



20



21



22



23



24





25



26



27



28



29



30





Tags


heating bills
freeze
shopping
children
debit cards
Building credit
FICO scores
closing an account
credit card
credit cards
fees
fine print
payments
rewards
contactless
students
credit counseling
debt management
debt
health care
credit limit
trends
identity theft
Federal Trade Commission
fraud



Other Voices and Blogs


Alpha Consumer
Blueprint for Financial Prosperity
Compare and Save
Consumerism Commentary
The Consumerist
Merchant Account
Money Under 30
My Two Dollars
The Penny Saved
PFblogs.org
The Simple Dollar
WalletPop


Useful Links


The Federal Reserve Board
The Fair Credit Reporting Act
Complaints involving credit cards


Subscribe to Taking Charge


 Subscribe to Taking Charge via RSS



Or, subscribe via e-mail








FeedBurner




Follow us on Twitter










Secure SSL Technology




Blogs Home


CreditCards.com

Site Security

Privacy Policy



About Us


Overview

Leadership Team

Press Room

Careers



Contact Us


Customer Support

Partnership Opportunities

Business Development

Media Relations



© Copyright 2011 Credit Cards.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use



 













