Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency    Washington :  DC :  USA
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By Stephanie Ealy            3 0      
Views: 310
       After disaster declarations for federal help seemed overlooked, finally late Friday President Obama declared a state of emergency in Texas, making funds available to those affected by the wildfires.  It was no easy task for Texas Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst to claim victory for federal help.  Dewhurst expressed frustration with the lack of response from the White House. He claimed."We need help yesterday." He signed yet another declaration in an effort to put the pressure on and finally saw results for federal aid to help families affected by the wildfires, according to CNN News.  Almost 1,400 homes have been destroyed in Bastrop County since wildfires started there about a week ago, Dewhurst said.  "Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster," the federal government declared. Residents said the state of Texas smells like a campfire.         1 of 2        
A state of emergency was declared for the area
     
Stephanie Ealy is based in Tacoma, Washington, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (84.0%) Portugal (3.2%) Pakistan (2.1%) Czech Republic (1.6%) 11 other countries (7.0%)           READ MORE: wildfires, Texas in a state of emergency, texas, Federal, President, wildfire, tropical storm, people, fire, Fires, tropical, emergency, president obama, texas state of emergency   More News From: Washington :  DC :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 5            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
wow, took a little while but it's good news nevertheless... rated up!
            Reply  Reply By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Thanks beautiful Amber Cornelia, I cannot even imagine losing my home and being stranded like the Texans.
            Reply  Reply By     marysteven
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
exactly.....shifting all of a sudden from your earlier living place is really difficult!
             Reply By     Stephanie Ealy
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
You sound like a woman of experience Mary! Just seems like it would be so weird for so long. It would take a long time to rebuild. Your whole life would be turned upside down.
            Reply  Posted By     FCEtier
|
29 minutes
ago
  
How long did it take Bush to declare a state of emergency for NOLA and the Gulf Coast after Katrina?
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Obama approves aid for Texas wildfires By: TajdarHaider      US President Barack Obama has approved a federal disaster declaration for the US state of Texas which has been hit by a destructive series of wildfires.About 800 firefighters continue to battle more than three dozen wildfires across the southern state that have already swept over 156,000 acres of land,.The wildfires have so far left at least four ...  about 2 hours ago     Texas wildfires destroyed nearly 1,400 homes By: ZohaibAnwer       
BASTROP, Texas, USA - Wildfires have destroyed until Thursday, nearly 1,400 homes in central Texas, where firefighters are trying to control days.
A total of 1,386 residential structures have been burned, said Robbie Barrera, agent of the Department of Public Safety of the state, and indicated that the fire is contained by 30%.
...  1 day ago     Texas wildfires engulf more than 1000 homes By: jaded87      
The disastrous Texas wildfires have ended up destroying 1000 homes. These have been some of the most devastating wildfires in Texas history already with blazes still moving and 70% of the fires still to be contained. Last week, more than 180 fires erupted in several areas.
Thousands of people have been evacuated so far due to the wildfires. ...  2 days ago     Rick Perry, Faces The Test Of Leadership In Real Time With Wildfires ... By: kensai      
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - Call it a test of leadership in real time.
 
Rick Perry, left the presidential campaign trail this week to dash back to Texas, where forest fires have consumed more than 1,000 homes in one week.
 
"Pay no attention to politics now" is like a conservative Republican, said after abandoning a highly publicized ...  2 days ago     Bastrop Texas wildfire update By: mahlina       
Bastrop, Texas wildfire has destroyed almost 600 homes, setting a record for the highest number of homes lost in a single fire in Texas history. Firefighters are trying to bring the wind-fueled wildfire under control that has consumed more than 25, 000 acres of land and forced approximately 5,000 people to evacuate.
According to recent ...  3 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Texas wildfire victims wondering where Perry is  
Kansas City Star
 Texas Residents affected by a devastating Central Texas wildfire are growing impatient with state officials and questioning why Gov. Rick Perry hasn't spent more time there.Some Bastrop County residents yelled at Texas Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst during...    Frustrations mount as Texas wildfires turn up heat  
CNN
 Nearly 1,400 homes have been destroyed in Bastrop County, Texas, since a wildfire started there six days ago, Dewhurst said. Other major fires are burning in Cass, Travis, Grimes, Montgomery and Waller counties, according to the Texas Forest Service.    Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees  
Charlotte Observer Online
 Texas Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in...    Texas providing help to Bastrop wildfire victims  
Austin America-Statesman/Texas Longhorns
 Texas Gov. Rick Perry says residents whose homes were destroyed by a massive Central Texas wildfire will be eligible for state funding that will pay for hotel vouchers for temporary shelter as well as cover essential expenses. The funding is being...    Early estimates put Bastrop wildfire cost at $1.2M  
Austin America-Statesman/Texas Longhorns
 Texas The most destructive wildfire on record in Texas has racked up a bill of at least $1.2 million so far. The Texas Forest Service cautioned Friday that the figure was an early estimate and certainly expected to climb. The wildfire in Bastrop...    Untrained Texas wildfire volunteers turned away  
Austin America-Statesman/Texas Longhorns
 Texas Emergency management officials say some volunteer firefighters eager to help battle Texas wildfires have been turned away due to lack of training or no equipment. The Austin American-Statesman (http://bit.ly/pQ7Ncq ) reports the volunteers were...   More Related Stories     Images    >         A state of emergency was ...    A state of emergency was ... Image Source: www.afp.com A state of emergency was declared for the area        President Dmitry Medvedev ...    President Dmitry Medvedev ... Image Source: www.afp.com President Dmitry Medvedev declared a state of emergency in seven Russian ...      More Related Images    More From Washington          NASA postponed launch of Twin Moon Probes        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super Committee        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency          BY THE NUMBERS: Solyndra, the Solar Panel Manufacturer, and President Obama         HQ PHOTOS : Jennifer Lopez PANTY UPSKIRT Pics.        Obama was concerned about storm the Israeli embassy in Cairo        Obama proposes an plan for jobs at a cost of $ 447 billion          U.S. alert on the anniversary of the September attacks        President Obama plans to face Congress with ideas on job creation        Barack Obama prepares to unveil his plan for employment        NASA Launched Two probes to Penetrate the secrets of the womb of the Moon          Man who fathered 150 offsprings                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10297284      Related People              Barack Obama          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 11       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 3       Comments: 5    5       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10297284), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10297284 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10297284 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10297284-hey-yall-help-is-on-the-way-obama-declares-texas-a-state-of-emergency.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         