Free Offers to Help Wildfire Vicitms




View as Webpage | Send Feedback







To our Clients and Friends:
Our hearts go out to those whose lives have been affected by the recent wildfires. The photos of the damage are unbelievable. 
We want to help. When landlines are unavailable, it is difficult to communicate with family and friends. Here is what we can do: 

 Texting: We will add text messaging to any existing plan for 30 days. Landlines may be down or jammed. Texting may be the only way to contact group members.
Group Opt-In: If you want to send a text message to your group but the group members have not opted in, we will opt-in all of your people instantly.
Weather Warnings: Will be added to any existing plan – again, at no charge – until  November 1.

If your group is part of an organization coordinating any type of relief for the affected areas, we will add free call credits to your account to help with your mission. If you want to switch to an unlimited calling plan, we can help with that, too.
NOTE: If you know of a group or organization similarly affected that does not have a communication system, we would like to offer our services to them free of charge during this time of crisis. Have someone from that organization call us at the number below. 
To get any or all of these free offers, call at 877-698-3262, Option 3, then Option 4. Our client support staff can make these changes for you, effective immediately.
You are and will remain in our thoughts and prayers.

                    Leib Lurie, CEO
                  One Call Now 
Protect, Inform and Engage with Messages That Matter
One Call Now

Problem or Question? Contact Us!
Always There,
                    Real People Support
                    877.698.3262  (option 3) support@onecallnow.com

Feedback Wanted
We appreciate and reward your referrals! Let us know how One Call Now has simplified your phone tree! Email us today at feedback@onecallnow.com

Connect with us!


 





One Call Now is America's Largest Message Notification Provider
Click to unsubscribe from all email notifications from One Call Now. Please note that if you belong to multiple groups, your email address will be removed from each group.
One Call Now | 726 Grant St. | Troy, OH 45373



 




