Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid Attack on the Embassy                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid Attack on the Embassy    Cairo :  Egypt
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By Ljubica Vujadinovic            7 0      
Views: 305
        Egypt has declared a state of alert early Saturday, after protesters broke in Israel’s embassy in Cairo, and threw hundreds of documents through the windows. Reportedly, the ambassador,Yitzhak Levanon, fled the country on Israeli military plane together with his family, and other Israeli diplomats. Reportedly, Israeli authorities appealed to Washington for help. The US President Barack ObamaBarack Obama expressed “great concern” over the situation, and called on Egypt to protect the embassy from demonstrators, the White House said in a statement. The storming of the embassy started Friday afternoon, and the protesters finally managed to destroy the surrounding wall , and enter the building during the evening. Egypt’s authorities said at least 450 protesters were injured in confrontations with police, who used teargas and fired blanks in the air in an effort to disperse them. Several vehicles were set alight. The local media reported police also used water cannons, and gun shots were heard near the embassy. It was a second time in less than a month that Israel’s embassy in Cairo has been attacked. Since the fall of Hosni Mubarak in February, many Egyptians were calling for the currently ruling military council to end the 1979 peace treaty with Israel. The anti-Jewish atmosphere escalated three weeks ago, after five Egyptian security personnel were shot dead by Israelis on the border of two countries. The officials in Cairo called the policemen's death "unacceptable". However, while Israel did not admit responsibility, it said the deaths were regretted.        1 of 36        
Protesters gather for Friday prayers in Tahrir square in Cairo
         
Ljubica Vujadinovic is based in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Serbia,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (54.5%) Philippines (8.6%) Italy (5.9%) United Kingdom (5.0%) 19 other countries (20.9%)           READ MORE: Egypt, state of emergency, Israel, Israeli Embassy, Protesters, Cairo, jewish, Obama, White House   More News From: Cairo :  Egypt      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     Vicky247
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Big news rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
The Egyptian people wanted the Israeli ambassador expelled after the Sinai incident. The military dictatorship didn't expel him. At the end the people's power prevailed.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          The Israeli Embassy stormed by protesters By: lalag      Hundreds of Egyptians have attacked Friday night the premises of the Israeli embassy in Cairo and succeeded in entering the lobby of the diplomatic mission but failed to access other parts of the building.Yitzhak Levanon Ambassador, his family and diplomatic personnel were taken to Cairo airport escorted strengthened, airport sources said....  about 6 hours ago     Israeli Minister Plenipotentiary To Egypt Went Home After Embassy ... By: jamespabalan      Israel flew its ambassador home after Egyptians stormed the building housing the Israeli mission in Cairo, plunging Egypt's ruling army deeper into its toughest diplomatic crisis.
The violence started when Egyptian protesters throw embassy documents and the Israeli flag from windows. Police disperse the crowd using teargas.
Protesters did not ...  about 6 hours ago     U.S in ground to help his longlasting Partner on embassy attack issue By: milliondollarspy      Israeli biggest partner and supporter U.S.A worried on pulling down the boundary wall of Israeli Embassy.
President Barack Obama said to Prime Minister Netanyahu that U.S is taking steps to resolve the situation without further violences or damages.
Obama also Warned to Egypt government "to honor its international obligations to safeguard the ...  about 7 hours ago     Egypt declares state of alert after assault on Israeli embassy By: kingston23      The Egyptian Interior Ministry declared a state of alert to deal with the unrest around the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, who on Friday was attacked by protesters.The assault on the embassy caused the Israeli ambassador to Egypt, Yitzhak Levanon, and his family leave the country.The Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf, convened an emergency meeting ...  about 7 hours ago     Egyptians break into Israeli Embassy in Cairo By: skooter      Skoter reporting 09/10/11
Mike my pal in Cairo started sending credible
news once more from Egypt
after a long silence. This time it was all about protesters breaking into the
Israeli Embassy in Cairo Friday reaching a room
and started throwing Hebrew language documents out of the windows as hundreds
more demonstrated outside, ...  about 8 hours ago     Ambassador of Israel in Egypt is ready to leave the country after ... By: kingston23      Israel's ambassador in Egypt, Yitzhak Levanon, is in the Cairo Airport ready to leave the country after the attacks that occurred earlier in the building of the Israeli embassy in Cairo.Incidentally, the Egyptian prime minister, Esam Sharaf, has called an emergency meeting with his cabinet to discuss the situation.Reports indicate that the ...  about 8 hours ago     State of Alert declare after attack on Israeli embassy in Egypt By: milliondollarspy      A egyptian government spokesman said in his statement that egyptian government declare a state of alert. This state of alert declare after the attacks on Israeli Embassy.
Mohamed Hegazy, the spokesman for the prime minister announced this alert and he also cancel the holidays of police. Egyptian protester tore down the wall of ...  about 8 hours ago     Egypt:Demonstrators storm Israeli Embassy building  By: ahmedibrahem      
 
Egypt declared a state of alert early this morning after a group of 30 protesters broke into the Israeli embassy in Cairo last night and dumped hundreds of documents out of the windows.
 
 Protesters broke into the Israeli Embassy in Cairo Friday and dumped documents out of the windows as hundreds more demonstrated outside, ...  about 10 hours ago     Video: Egyptian protesters storm Israel Embassy in Cairo and Obama ... By: faraway      Egyptians protesters storm Israel Embassy in Cairo and throwing hundreds of documents from the windows on streets taken from the building  in Cairo, said Al
Hundreds of protesters converged on the Israeli embassy on Friday afternoon and during the evening, destroying parts of the building walls with hammers, while others used...  about 13 hours ago     Egyptians protest outside the Embassy of Israel By: kingston23      Hundreds of Egyptian activists are protesting outside a building that embraces Israel's diplomatic representatives in Cairo. Activists have lying parts of the wall built by the authorities to protect the Israeli embassy and are trying to destroy the entire barrier. The activist group separated from a mass demonstration in Tahrir Square, where ...  about 15 hours ago     Egyptians Hold Massive Anti-Israel Protests  By: saleh1966      A Facebook invitation to demonstrate on Friday has been sent out calling for the expulsion of the Israeli ambassador from Egypt as a response to the killing of Egypt’s soldiers last week.
Thousands of Egyptians gathered Friday outside the Israeli embassy in Cairo in what was supposed to be a "million-man march" calling on the government to ...  14 days ago     Egypt to hold massive anti-Israel rally By: TajdarHaider      Egyptians are set to stage a million-man demonstration at Cairo's Liberation Square to call for an end to the country's peace accord with Israel, following a week of escalating tensions between the neighbors.Demonstrators will also gather outside the Israeli embassy to demand the expulsion of Tel Aviv's ambassador to Egypt Yitzhak Levanon. ...  14 days ago     Egyptians urge freeze of Israel ties By: TajdarHaider      Egyptian protesters continue demonstrating in front of the Israeli embassy in the capital Cairo, calling for an end to Egypt's diplomatic ties with Israel.The demonstrators insisted that they would press ahead with the protests outside the embassy until Tel Aviv's envoy to Cairo, Yitzhak Levanon, is expelled from the country, a Press TV ...  17 days ago     Second night of protests in Cairo during the crisis between Egypt and ... By: attari157       
Thousands of people demonstrated for a second night in Cairo to protest the deaths of five Egyptian soldiers in an Israeli bombing last Thursday on the border with Israel. During the march, one of the participants have taken the Israeli flag that flew outside the embassy in Cairo, but hours laterauthorities have managed to ...  20 days ago     Emergency meeting of Arab League outbreak of violence in Gaza By: crown62      
An emergency meeting of the Arab League will take place this Sunday in Cairo amid the outbreak of violence between Palestinian militants and
Israeli armed forces.It is reported that killed during the air raids of the army of Israel in the Gaza Strip, as well as those conducted in southern Israel. The violence erupted after insurgents ...  20 days ago     Egypt to withdraw Israel envoy over Sinai shootings By: Ahsanali927      Egypt says it will
withdraw its ambassador to Israel in protest at the deaths of five
policeman, reportedly shot by Israeli forces on Thursday.
Cairo said it held Israel politically and legally responsible, and demanded an investigation and an apology.
Israel has promised to investigate the deaths, amid claims
that Israeli forces killed ...  21 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Egypt sends troops after protester attack  
The Courier-Mail
 Israeli embassy in Cairo following violent protests in front of the Jewish state's mission overnight that left more than 200 people injured. One demonstrator died of a heart attack during the violence, which erupted not far from Tahrir Square, the...    Hundreds of Egyptians besiege Israeli embassy  
Russia Today
 The military wing of Hamas has continued to shell Israeli territory, launching 12 more rockets more on Sunday, while the Israeli authorities reported the arrest of 120 Palestinian activists in the southern West Bank last night...A group of protesters...    White House: Obama concerned by situation at Israelן¿½s Cairo embassy  
Yedioth Ahronoth
 Obama concerned by situation at Israel's Cairo embassy US President Barack Obama says the Administration is taking all necessary steps in order to calm the situation at Israel's Embassy in Cairo.   In a statement issued by the White House, the...    Egyptian protesters tear down sections of security wall outside Israeli ...  
Macleans
 Hundreds of Egyptian protesters have torn down parts of a graffiti-covered security wall that had recently been put up near the entrance of the Israeli Embassy in Cairo. Egyptian security forces did not intervene as crowds climbed the embassy...    Cairo: Egypt activists trying to demolish Israel embassy wall  
Yedioth Ahronoth
 Egypt activists trying to demolish Israel embassy wall Egyptian activists on Friday began demolishing a wall built around a building housing the Israeli Embassy in Cairo to protect it against demonstrators, witnesses said.   They said about a dozen...    Egyptians storm building housing Israeli Embassy  
NY Daily News
 A group of about 30 protesters broke into the Israeli Embassy in Cairo Friday and dumped hundreds of documents out of the windows after a day of demonstrations outside the building in which crowds swinging sledge hammers and using their bare hands...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Protesters gather for Friday ...    Protesters gather for Friday ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Protesters gather for Friday prayers in Tahrir square in Cairo        Egyptian political activists ...    Egyptian political activists ... Image Source: www.afp.com Egyptian political activists protest in Cairo        Anti-Mubarak protest in Cairo    Anti-Mubarak protest in Cairo Image Source: www.afp.com Anti-Mubarak protest in Cairo        An anti-government protester ...    An anti-government protester ... Image Source: www.afp.com An anti-government protester in Cairo        A protester in Cairo's Tahrir ...    A protester in Cairo's Tahrir ... Image Source: www.afp.com A protester in Cairo's Tahrir Square        Supporters of Egypt's former ...    Supporters of Egypt's former ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Supporters of Egypt's former President Hosni Mubarak cover themselves ...      More Related Images    More From Cairo          Obama expressed his concern to Netanyahu        Three Dead After Embassy Protest In Cairo        Israeli Embassy in Cairo Buttcrack, At least three people were killed and more than 1,000 people were injured         Egyptians burst into Israeli embassy           Egypt:Demonstrators storm Israeli Embassy building         Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid Attack on the Embassy        three people killed in cairo        Two dead after the embassy was stormed          Israeli Minister Plenipotentiary To Egypt Went Home After Embassy Attack        Israeli diplomats evacuated from Cairo        After Attack on Israeli embassy Egypt Declared State of Alert         Egypt on alert after Israel embassy stormed in Cairo          The protesters burned Israeli flags.                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10295499          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 49       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 30       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10295499), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10295499 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10295499 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid Attack on the Embassy” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10295499-egypt-declares-state-of-emergency-israeli-diplomats-flee-cairo-amid-attack-on-the-embassy.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         