Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes!                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes!    Dunedin :  New Zealand
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By AmberCornelio            6 0      
Views: 324
        Seems like there’s no censorship in New Zealand when it comes to playing Rugby at least, as a match took place on Saturday, 10 September 2011 in Dunedin, New Zealand between the Dunedin-based Nude Blacks (the free-spirited men) and the visiting Spanish Conquistadors (the pink and blue clad women) at Dunedin Rugby Club at Kettle Park. The Dunedin-based Nude Black actually lost for the fist time, being beaten by the clothed women’s team from Spain, 25-20. Let’s just say that the sight of all those men in the buff did not deter them from their focus on winning the game!  Word has it that the visiting Spanish Conquistadors have a pole dancer as one of their players. Well done ladies and hopefully you had fun… Enjoy all the New Zealand mussels and lamb!        1 of 33        
Players make a tackle during a nude rugby match between the male Nude Blacks and the female Spanish Conquistadors at Dunedin Rugby Club, Kettle Park on 10 September 2011 in Dunedin, New Zealand.
     
AmberCornelio is based in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (52.6%) New Zealand (11.7%) Malaysia (7.8%) Qatar (5.8%) 13 other countries (16.2%)           READ MORE: Dunedin Nude Blacks, Spanish Conquistadors rugby team, New Zealand Rugby, Dunedin Rugby Club, Kettle Park Dunedin, New Zealand nude rugby players, nude rugby, match, cup, all black, Rugby World Cup, New Zealand, d c, world, world cup, rugby   More News From: Dunedin :  New Zealand      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 6            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
AmberCornelio,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     skooter
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
This is an exciting game, lots of view for horny ladies from Spain.
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing news...Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this exciting game news... RATED UP.
            Reply  Posted By     Ammaduddin
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Rated up for this report,
            Reply  Posted By     mfcnews
|
1 minute
ago
  
whats going on! rated up!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     NZ naked rugby team exposed by Spanish women  
Taiwan News
 New Zealand's premier naked rugby team has been exposed. The Dunedin-based Nude Blacks lost for the first time Saturday, beaten 25-20 by a clothed women's team from Spain. The Nude Blacks _ named for the country's elite All Blacks rugby team _ played...    Rugby fans pack central Dunedin  
New Zealand Herald
 A visible police presence was increased shortly after 2pm, when an official caravan was towed in the Octagon in front of supporters. Bars, restaurants and cafes are packed with supporters, while fans driving vehicles decorated in their national...    World Cup Diary: Televised opener proves a mixed advert for rugby  
The independent
 Television is the lifeblood of professional sport: spend an hour in the company of Mike Miller, the chief executive of the International Rugby Board, and you will be made extremely well aware that, in his world, this is a stone-cold fact, a...    Host New Zealand opens Rugby World Cup with win  
The Globe & Mail
 New Zealand took care of business with a comfortable 41-10 win over Tonga to open the seventh World Cup on Friday night. After a rousing opening ceremony and passionate pre-match challenges, the All Blacks drained all the tension and anticipation by...    New Zealand Parties to Forget Troubles as World Cup Kicks Off  
International Herald Tribune
 New Zealand put behind them 12 months of despair caused by a devastating earthquake, tragic mine explosion and a fluttering economy to begin a six-week party as the All Blacks beat Tonga 41-10 in the opening match of the rugby World Cup on Friday.    Boks acknowledge pressure at Rugby World Cup  
Taiwan News
 The coach of the formidable Springboks forward pack, Gary Gold, says the pressure South Africa is under as defending champion at the Rugby World Cup is similar that of the host nation, New Zealand. Gold told a news conference on the eve of the...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Nude rugby match in NZ    Nude rugby match in NZ Image Source: allvoices Players make a tackle during a nude rugby match between the male Nude ...        Players of Argentina's rugby ...    Players of Argentina's rugby ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Players of Argentina's rugby team sing the national anthem during an ...        Contepomi of Argentina's rugby ...    Contepomi of Argentina's rugby ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Contepomi of Argentina's rugby team runs with the ball during their ...        Argentina's rugby team head ...    Argentina's rugby team head ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Argentina's rugby team head coach Phelan watches a training session in ...        Argentina's rugby players run ...    Argentina's rugby players run ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Argentina's rugby players run during a training session in Dunedin        Contepomi of Argentina's rugby ...    Contepomi of Argentina's rugby ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Contepomi of Argentina's rugby team kicks the ball during a training ...      More Related Images    More From Dunedin          The Pumas go for the dream debut         Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes!        CELTIC ARTS FESTIVAL TAKE PLACE IN DUNEDIN FROM 10 SEPTEMBER TO 1 OCTOBER 2011        Simply…Gluten-Free partners with Hurst Family Harvest to create Gluten-free recipes using their bean mixes          Dr. No to the debt rescue       While you were working        Two Germans travelled to New Zealand to steal       Season Premiere of SPARTACUS:GODS OF THE ARENA S01E01 starting now only on STARZ          Winged Human Remains Found in New Zealand        Archeologists discover remains of winged humans        The Ig-Nobel award for a pair of socks         Austerity Measures          Bomb scare in Dunedin                      Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10296640          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 7       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 3       Images: 32       Comments: 6    6       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10296640), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10296640 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10296640 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes!” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10296640-nude-rugby-in-new-zealand-between-the-sexes.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         