Patterson Preparedness Consulting | Emergency Planning Services for Small Business, Schools, Churches and City Organizations




Patterson Preparedness Consulting | Emergency Planning Services













Home
Preparedness Planning
FAQ
About Us
Contact Us
 







Preparing You For The Worst Case Scenario













Since September 11, 2001, the necessity of emergency management has become more important than ever.  However, emergency management and pre-planned recovery with limited managerial resources have been woefully insufficient in many organizations.  Most organizations lack a contingency planing leaving emergency management virtually non-existent.

Emergency Planning Services
Patterson Preparedness Consulting (PPC) assists small, start-up, and home-based businesses throughout the United States to prepare, respond, and recover from all-hazards through “emergency planning”.  Emergency Planning will ensure your employees’ safety and that you resume business operations fairly quickly after a disaster.  This plan is particularly crucial for small businesses because they lack the financial and personnel resources that large corporation can count on to work through a crisis.  More importantly having an emergency plan in place to protect your business can yield a positive return to your investment even if a disaster never occurs.
Our services include:

    Vulnerability Assessments
    Organize and Coordination of Vital Resources
    Mitigation Plans
    Emergency Operation Plans
    Shelter and Evacuation Plans
    Monitor and Assess the Progress of Plan Implementation
    Plan Implementation Training
    Emergency Preparedness Seminars

Utilization of these services will prepare you to reduce loss after an event, increase cost effectiveness and could ultimately save both property and lives.  Preparing your business with PPC offers a much greater reward than the risk of operating without us.
Small businesses, school, childcare providers and churches are all pillars of every community.  Each of these organizations has special needs to be addressed and resolved in an effort to promote longevity.  Your firm is very important to the communities you serve; we want to ensure you are prepared.
Using the worst-case scenario approach, PPC’s comprehensive consulting services will help you prepare for potential disasters that could otherwise cripple business operations.
Planning Starts Here
 






 “Planning is bringing the future into the present so that you can do something about it now” 
- Alan Lakein
Mission Statement The mission of Patterson Preparedness Consulting is to make a difference nationwide by assisting businesses and communities without dedicated emergency management staff to prepare and recover from natural disasters and all hazards. 
Our Goals Promote awareness of potential threats to the longevity of your business.
Create a comprehensive plan of recovery to resume business as soon as possible after disaster.
Provide a long-term partnership with your business and resources to keep your business sage.

Get Started Today Our services are available to small businesses, churches, schools and municipalities throughout the United States.
To Request Additional Information, please
Call us today!
214-336-1814
Or
Email us. 

 










Recent Articles 


 Electricity Overload and Texas Heat | What to do
Due to extremely high temperatures across Texas this week the state’s Electric Reliability



 Emergency Kits (Home, Car/Work, and Pets)
Items for your 72 hour kit HOME Water for at least 3 days-



 How-To Beat the Heat
Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of fluids and avoid drinks with caffeine or




Preparedness Blog 
Disease

Preparedness Planning

Guides and How-To



Preparing for Natural Disasters

Floods

Hurricanes

Tornadoes

Wildfires




Follow Us! 










© 2011 Patterson Preparedness Planning All Rights Reserved. | 1308 Teasley Lane | Denton, Texas 76205 | Tel: 214-336-1814
Website design and search engine optimization by Optimized Local Search Services.										| Entries (RSS)



Back to Top





 

