Fall TV Preview: The 10 Most Anticipated New Shows - Yahoo! TV




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! TV              Search   Search Web       





HomeTv ListingsVideosPhotosNewsFull EpisodesTonight's PicksPrimetime RecapDaytime RecapBlogs

Yahoo! TVThe SetTelevision Without PityHuluFall TV

EmmysFall Tv










Search




Keyword

TV Search


 




Trending Now:»

 Friends with Benefits Roseanne's Nuts Haven Man, Woman... 



 




















Previous Photo Next Photo
1 of 12 Photos






		The nerve of these networks -- a "Charlie's Angels" reboot? Swinging '60s Playboy bunnies and stewardesses quivering on the cusp of workplace liberation? Simon Cowell? Oh yes, shameless guilty pleasures come this fall, garnering plenty of open-mouthed buzz and online attention. Now, don't mistake nerve for truly daring programming -- that's often left to the cable guys coming up with grit-encrusted, critical faves like "Boss" (Starz), "Homeland" (Showtime), or "Hell on Wheels" (AMC). Still, one of these does make the Top 10 most anticipated shows (as determined by searches from the past 30 days). Incidentally, while dramas pretty much hog the top 10 spots, comedies like "2 Broke Girls" (CBS), "New Girl" (Fox), and "Last Man Standing" (ABC) were right on their tails.  - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM









SPONSORED LINKS


Senior Dating Network
Join the Top Senior Dating Network and Meet Someone Special Today
www.SeniorPeopleMeet.com


ABC's Revenge
Get a taste of Revenge before the series premiere on 9/21 on ABC.
abc.go.com/revenge


Mortgage Rates Hit 2.50%
If you owe under $729k you may qualify for 3.01% APR Govt Refi Plans.
www.MortgageRatesExperts.com


Watch TV Free On Your PC
Watch 3,000+ Channels On Your PC, No Monthly Fees, Unlimited Usage!
www.StopPayingCableBills.com















Photos 1-6 of 12


 

The nerve of these networks -- a "Charlie's Angels" reboot? Swinging '60s Playboy bunnies and stewardesses quivering on the cusp of workplace liberation? Simon Cowell? Oh yes, shameless guilty pleasures come this fall, garnering plenty of open-mouthed buzz and online attention. Now, don't mistake nerve for truly daring programming -- that's often left to the cable guys coming up with grit-encrusted, critical faves like "Boss" (Starz), "Homeland" (Showtime), or "Hell on Wheels" (AMC). Still, one of these does make the Top 10 most anticipated shows (as determined by searches from the past 30 days). Incidentally, while dramas pretty much hog the top 10 spots, comedies like "2 Broke Girls" (CBS), "New Girl" (Fox), and "Last Man Standing" (ABC) were right on their tails.Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

1. "Charlie's Angels": Once, there were three little girls who caused a ruckus in the 1970s, introducing "jiggle TV" but also starring as the first set of single, working private dicks since "Honey West." Thirty-some years and "Moonlighting"/"V.I.P."/"Veronica Mars" later, ABC's back jiggling at the drawing board with Minka Kelly, Annie Ilonzeh, and Rachael Taylor (plus Ramon Rodriguez as the oft-neglected Bosley). This could be a family viewing, what with interest from teens all the way up to folks in their early 50s and a fairly balanced gender split (47% female, 53% male). Then again, maybe some are toting pop-culture baggage and looking askance at the show's premise of "redemption and second chances." Is that why the promo picture has the girls pointing their fingers instead of guns? Hmmm. On the upside: Isaiah Mustafa, the rakishly toweled Old Spice pitchman, will be a recurring character as a former Angel squeeze. All the more to revive another old concept: scratch-and-sniff viewing... and yes, the American and Japanese scientists are spritzing to a finish line. Premieres Thursday, 9/22 at 8pm ET on ABCABC/Bob D'Amico - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

2. "American Horror Story": Genre benders Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk poked into the seamy underbelly for "Nip/Tuck" and the musical caste system for "Glee." Now, back in their FX lair, the twosome aim for gruesome -- and judging from the online search action, there's a coast-to-coast queue waiting to be freaked out. The horror centers on a married couple (Connie Britton and Dylan McDermott) who move into a bargain-priced suburban home with a small murder-suicide blemish -- but hey, the septic system works. Lest you suspect this of being another 21st-century update on "The Amityville Horror," Murphy claims this "psychosexual thriller" really is more about "marriage and infidelity" -- two topics that induce their own fair share of shudders. Megawatt Jessica Lange, downsizing to the small screen for the first time, plays the batty neighbor. Besides fear, a decent amount of outrage may be stirred -- among redheads, who apparently have more than their fair share of freak-outs. Premieres Wednesday, 10/5 at 10pm on FXFX/Robert Zuckerman - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

3. "The X Factor": The dour Brit Simon Cowell, tinkering with the celebrity-making machine, at last returns to American shores looking not for an idol, but a "superstar." How does this singing competition differ from "American Idol" and "America's Got Talent" -- other than the fact it doesn't have the word "America" in the title (and what's up with that)? 1) Singers can be duos and groups. 2) No age restrictions. 3) Old-fashioned crowdsourced wisdom (formerly known as the peanut gallery) combined with a judicial panel that includes Antonio Reid, Nicole Scherzinger, and -- yes -- Paula Abdul. 4) Boot camp, where budding talents actually get solid advice. Will the U.S. be glad to have him back -- considering that his fellow countrymen prefer the U.K. "X Factor" without him? Maybe, given fans from preteens to people in their early '50s. Hey, a little acid never hurt anyone. Premieres Wednesday, 9/21 at 8pm ET on FoxFOX/Nino Munoz - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

4. "The Playboy Club": Once, Playboy was a forbidden pleasure, except for its articles. Now it's soapy fare for NBC nostalgia and the broadcast network's '60s counter-response to "Mad Men" retro mania. The Chicago Tribune reported outrage from Salt Lake City and Gloria Steinem, although Illinois, Pennsylvania, Texas, Ohio and Missouri lead the states in checking out the "Club." This show has been brought to you by the letter E -- for Empowerment, according to the producers and actors, because it was liberating to wear a cotton tail in 1963. (Not to be confused with the punctuated E!, the network which hosts the cheerfully shameless Playmate reality show, "The Girls Next Door"). As the "Club" members extol, critics have tossed another E word right back -- Exploitation. (But a different kind of Gloria-Steinem-undercover-expose Exploitation.) So far people ages 13 to 44 (and yes, mostly men at 61% of online searches) are just Eyeballing -- but will they Enjoy Premieres Monday, 9/19 at 10pm ET on NBCNBC/John Russo - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

5. "Boss": It's Kelsey Grammer like you've never seen him. Actually, strike that -- those who saw him in his early theatrical days would have recognized his baritone in Shakespearean tragedies like "Othello" or "Macbeth," so being a power-hungry, brain-addled Chicago mayor should barely be a stretch. That and the whole fourth-marriage-on-the-heels-of-the-third broadcast on reality TV and the late-night circuit (and the messiness continues). So we know Grammer's qualifications for the job, but isn't Chi-town really all about the connections? Lionsgate is backing the enterprise, Gus Van Sant ("Drugstore Cowboy," "Milk") directing the premiere episode, Farhad Safinia ("Apocalypto") penning the script, and Connie Nielsen ("Gladiator") starring as the wife. Then there's the setting... no, not simply being in the Windy City: After production wrapped up, "The Playboy Club" moved right into the same building. Online buzz shows men want to deal with the "Boss" more than women. Premieres Friday, 10/21 at 10pm on StarzMMXI Lions Gate Television Inc. - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

6. "Revenge": So here's the pitch: Think "The Count of Monte Cristo" -- you know, that Alexander Dumas tale of shoemaker Edmond Dantes, who sought bloody vengeance against false accusers -- but a woman (Emily VanCamp) instead of a man. And, instead of the Château d'If, think the Hamptons. Former '80s big screen actress Madeleine Stowe -- whose moneyed character Victoria Grayson's one target of vengeful plotting -- thinks "Revenge" will strum a vicarious chord among the plebes (of whom she was once a proud member). Will viewers get an insider look into the Long Island enclave? Hardly -- for one thing, the pilot (helmed by "Salt" director Philip Noyce) was filmed in North Carolina, and the remaining episodes were shot some 2,500 miles away in La La land. Still, VanCamp's a strong draw, and revenge itself tastes sweet for the 13-54, female-heavy (58%) crowd. Premieres Wednesday, 9/21 at 10pm ET on ABCABC/Craig Sjodin - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

7. "Pan Am": America's dominant airline in the early days of passenger flight, when traveling was glam and people kept their shoes on before boarding. Pan American Airways ended its 64-year run in 1991, but now back in a different kind of airwaves with arguably the most startling film-to-TV actress transition: iconoclast Christina Ricci playing a bohemian stewardess (as high-flying ladies were once known) and representing "a new breed of women." Like "The Playboy Club," the time is set to 1963 (the year the Equal Pay Act was approved -- coincidence?), but the creators and stars hotly deny any "Mad Men" time-warp influence -- even though ABC's vamping up the fashion angle in its marketing. Those looking into these mile-high adventures mostly hail from California, Texas, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and New York -- strong hubs indeed. Premieres Sunday, 9/25 at 10pm ET on ABCABC/Bob D'Amico - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

8. "Once Upon a Time": Who doesn't have a soft spot for a little fairy tale -- especially when the happy ending gets upended? Uprooting the classics these days is all the rage, like "Grimm" on NBC and this entry, which takes place in both a distance faraway place and modern Maine. The latter setting's about as far as you can get from Hawaii for the "Lost" creators. Besides, what better place than among laconic Yanks to hide out from evil queens -- Maine's the perfect kind of pragmatic witness protection relocation camp for fairy tale escapees. (Incidentally, Steveston, British Columbia, stood in for New England.) The critical buzz is strong for this one, and online buzz spreads nicely across ages (13 to 64) with a reasonable gender split (60% female/40% male). Ginnifer Goodwin is Snow White, Jennifer Morrison the daughter she had to hide, and Lana Parilla the nasty Queen Regina and also the mayor of Storybrooke in the Maine alternate universe. Sometimes, a recession means taking jobs for which you're over-qualified. Premieres Sunday, 10/23 at 8pm ET ABCABC/Craig Sjodin - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

9. "The Secret Circle": What happens when you cross "Twilight" with "Sabrina the Teenage Witch"? OK, the show's antecedents go farther back than either Stephenie Meyer, to a 1992 book by author L.J. Smith, who also wrote a little something called "The Vampire Diaries." The story has, shall we say, eerie similarities to ABC's "Once Upon a Time": It involves a mother's secrets and a New England town. Fans of the Young Adult series shouldn't expect a faithful retelling: The first episode alone starts with the death of teen heroine Cassie Blake's mother. Vaguely familiar faces populate the cast: Britt Robertson ("Life Unexpected"), Thomas Dekker ("Terminator: The Sarah Chronicles"), Gale Harold ("Queer as Folk"), Adam Harrington ("Dexter"), Ashley Crow ("Heroes"), Natasha Henstridge ("Species," "She Spies"). Premieres Thursday, 9/15 at 9pm ET on The CWThe CW/Frank Ockenfels III - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

10. "Ringer": Sarah Michelle Gellar was all about alter egos as vampire slayer Buffy. Now, Gellar's joining that select group of actors who have doubled their fun by playing identical twins. This time, she's on the run as former stripper and murder witness Bridget, who takes on the identity of her sister, wealthy Mrs. Siobhan Martin, after her estranged sibling goes overboard. Yes, Bette Davis fans, the plot sounds suspiciously reminiscent of the 1947 film, "A Stolen Life," except this identity theft is out of fear rather than love for the same man (Glenn Ford). Then again, dealing with conjugal rights should make for some intriguing plotlines, especially considering the array of manhood stuffed into this series: Mrs. Siobhan Martin's husband is played by iron-jawed Ioan Gruffudd ("The Fantastic Four"), the FBI agent in charge of the murder investigation is five-o-clock-shadowed Nestor Carbonell ("Lost," "The Dark Knight"), and Bridget's two Narcotics Anonymous pals are sculpted Mike Colter ("The Good Wife," "Million Dollar Baby") and blue-eyed Billy Miller ("All My Children," "The Young and the Restless"). No wonder Gellar needs at least two of herself. Premieres Tuesday, 9/13 at 9pm ET on The CWThe CW/Art Streiber - Wednesday, September, 7, 2011, 1:7 AM
 

  Our Editors' Picks       What to Watch/Skip/DVR     Complete Coverage  Thursday, September, 8, 2011, 6:8 PM























On This Site



Home
TV Listings
Videos
Photos
News
Full Episodes


Tonight's Picks
Primetime Recap
Daytime Recap
Blogs
Emmys
Fall TV









Also On Yahoo!AutosFinanceGamesGroupsHealthMapsMoviesMusicomg!ShineShoppingSportsTravelTVAll Yahoo! »




THINGS TO DO





Buy Movie Tickets
Lose Weight
Listen to Music
Watch Videos
Share Photos



















			Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
		    



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy











