9 Things Your Nail Technician Wants to Tell You - Fashion + Beauty on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Fashion + Beauty
Friday, September 9, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: back to schoolsummertime funfall fashion




9 Things Your Nail Technician Wants to Tell You



partner


by Woman's Day, on Wed Sep 7, 2011 12:07pm PDT


65 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse








by Brynn
Mannino


9 Things Your Nail Technician Wants to Tell You

 You probably drop by the local
nail salon regularly to get your hands and feet buffed and
polished, but have you ever wondered what your nail tech really
thinks about your unshaved legs, or how you can tell if a salon
properly sanitizes their equipment? We enlisted the experts to
share the inside scoop on what really goes on behind the scenes at
nail salons. Read on to learn little-known facts about what you
should expect at your next appointment, as well as the services
you’re better off skipping on.
1. Shaving calluses is illegal in most
states.
At some nail salons, your pedicurist might offer to shave your
calluses with a credo blade (that handheld device that looks like a
cross between a razor and a vegetable peeler). But, however
tempting the allure of callus-free feet may be, Rosanne Kinley,
salon owner and former president of the National-Interstate Council
of State Boards of Cosmetology, suggests turning down the offer.
According to Kinley, any procedure involving a credo blade is
considered a medical procedure, which is illegal to perform in a
nail salon. Moreover, shaving your calluses will only make them
grow back worse. “Your body reacts to your callused skin being
removed as it would to any other skin injury—[by growing] new
tissue,” says celebrity nail technician and New York State
cosmetology test proctor, Patricia Yankee. Not to mention: Calluses
protect our feet from daily wear and tear—think high heels and
friction caused by walking or jogging—so it’s best to just smooth
them with a pumice stone instead of removing them altogether, says
Kinley.
No time for a full makeover? Try this commercial
break beauty routine.
2. Don’t shave your legs before a pedicure.
You’ve likely heard the story by now: In 2000, 113 California women
made the news after contracting Mycobacterium fortuitum—a
bacterial infection caught via open wounds that results in purple,
pus-filled bumps—from infested pedicure tubs. After some
investigation, it was determined that all of the women had
something in common: They had shaved their legs before their
appointments, creating superficial nicks and wounds that left their
skin susceptible to infection. While nail salons are required by
law to rinse and disinfect their tubs with hospital-grade solution
after every client, it’s a good idea to protect yourself by holding
off on shaving until after your appointment. Infections aside,
shaving also strips the legs of a thin layer of skin, increasing
the chances of irritation caused by perfumed creams or exfoliating
beads used by most salons. Nail technicians urge customers to delay
shaving until after a pedicure, and insist there’s no reason to be
self-conscious about prickly legs. Says Yankee, “I don't even
notice whether a client has smooth legs or not! My focus is on
caring for the feet, not the legs.”
3. Bringing your own manicuring tools isn’t necessarily
safer.
Are you a stickler about toting your own files and cuticle cutters
to the salon? If so, you may not be doing yourself any favors.
“It’s more likely that someone’s personal tools are more unsanitary
than salon ones,” says Kinley. She goes on to explain that after
their appointments, customers usually seal their tools back in the
bag without sanitizing them, which becomes a breeding ground for
bacteria—even if it’s just their own. On the other hand, after each
client, professional salons are required to scrub their tools with
soap and water to remove debris, followed up by a (minimum)
10-minute soak in a hospital-grade sanitizer. If you’d still rather
stick to your own tools, Yankee suggests sanitizing them after each
use by adhering to the same cleaning routine: Scrub them with soap
and water, then soak for at least 10 minutes in a disinfectant
solution like Barbicide, which you can get at a professional beauty
supply store. If you don’t live near a beauty supply store, she
says regular old rubbing alcohol will also do the trick.
Learn what your hairdresser really wants to tell
you.
4. You should think about forgoing your appointment
if…
… you show any signs of infection, such as pain, itching and
redness around the nailbed, which is often caused by biting your
nails or picking at your cuticles. “Even if the salon is diligent
about sanitizing, you can still pick up bacteria or fungus a number
of ways,” says Yankee, including from your nail technician’s hands
or even from the nail file that was just used on your own feet.
(Note: If your nail technician nicks you while cutting your
cuticles, that can also leave you susceptible to infection--which
is why most dermatologists warn against the procedure.) And anyone
who has suffered a nail infection will tell you that the condition
is nothing to take lightly: Most cases result in swelling and puss
around the nailbed (typical of a bacterial infection) or
discoloration of the nailbed (characteristic of a fungal
infection), which can spread to the rest of the hand and will
require a trip to the doctor. These types of infections typically
require a course of oral antibiotics for full recovery—though the
infection itself can leave the nail looking disfigured for weeks.
And, apart from putting yourself at risk, Yankee also notes that
customers should be diligent about self-regulating their visits
since “going into a salon with an open wound puts others in danger
of picking something up from you.”
5. A 20% tip is usually appropriate.
If you often walk out of the nail salon wondering if you’ve over-
or under-tipped, we’ve got the definitive answer for you: “I would
say 20% is the golden rule,” says Kinley. And, according to her,
that rule applies both at high-end spas and discounted nail salons,
which frequently offer a manicure and pedicure package for around
$25. “At discount shops, the price is compromised somewhere and
it’s usually with products,” she says. For example, they may skimp
on the amount of soap they use in the tub water, or on the type of
lotion they use to moisturize your legs. Yankee warns that you get
what you pay for when you frequent salons that offer package deals;
“Contrary to what most people think, a manicure is supposed to last
up to 14—not four—days before chipping or becoming dull,” says
Yankee, who guarantees her work lasts for at least two weeks. But
that’s not to say you can’t tip extra if you have a longtime
relationship with your technician or you feel she has gone the
extra mile during your appointment. “Many of my clients tip me $20
for a pedicure,” Yankee says, which she charges $30 for.
Check out 10 surprising facts about
shampoo.
6. We generally don’t mind if you chat on your phone
during your appointment.
At every salon, there’s a Chatty Cathy, and while sometimes that
person’s work (or family, or boyfriend) drama is entertaining, at
other times it’s disruptive to other clients who are trying to
relax, “which could reflect poorly on the salon’s reputation,” says
Yankee. However, both experts agree that as long as you keep the
conversation short and your voice low, taking a phone call is no
big deal, especially considering all the white noise coming from
the pedicure thrones, hand dryers and ringing phones. Just remember
not to be so engrossed in your conversation that you miss the
technician’s cues to switch positions during your mani or pedi.
7. We’re not miracle workers.
“Occasionally, we’ll have a bride come in with chewed up cuticles
and mutilated fingernails who expects us to totally transform her
hands and feet in an hour,” Yankee says. “But if she’s not doing
anything to maintain [her nails] at home, there’s only so much we
can do.” The same goes for women who have neglected their toenails
all winter and anticipate miracles during their first summer
pedicure. Luckily, you don’t have to invest lots of cash in
expensive lotions and callus removers to keep your hands and feet
in shape between treatments. “Use all your throw-away or leftover
[beauty] products,” Yankee suggests. “Scrubs that may be too harsh
for your body or regenerative creams that are too oily for your
face are perfect for your feet,” she says. If you want to splurge
on a quality product, use the money towards a jojoba-based cuticle
oil, which keeps everything super moisturized. “Not only will
[moisturizing your nails] prevent them from becoming cracked or
speckled, but healthy nails hold products longer, so your manicure
or pedicure will last,” says Yankee.
Follow these 10 tips to boost your self-esteem in
the bedroom.
8. We’re happy to offer fix-ups—most of the
time.
“The most common problem [we see] is people messing up their polish
job,” says Yankee. And while technicians understand that accidents
can happen on the way to the drying booth, that doesn’t give
customers license to be careless. “In addition to taking everything
out of your bag that you’ll need to get home smudge-free, take
[enough] time to dry your nails,” says Yankee, who says two dryer
cycles are usually adequate to dry the top coat of your polish. Or,
if you’re really in a rush, use the nail oil, which will make the
surface slippery and harder to smudge when you brush up against
something. As for the clients who come in later in the week looking
for a freebie fix? “As technicians, we can tell if the chipping or
mess-up is because of a mistake we made or the client’s fault,” she
says. So think again before you try to pawn off your nail biting
habit as poor polish quality!
9. Don’t feel shy about asking for proof of
sanitation.
Never hesitate to follow up on proper sanitation before you get a
manicure or pedicure. For one thing, most state cosmetology laws
require that nail technicians use a new nail file for every
customer. “If a nail file looks old, feel free to request a new
one,” says Yankee. “Your nail technician will know why.” You should
also be aware that, should a tool be dropped or damaged during the
appointment, each manicurist is supposed to have three sets of
tools at the ready to ensure that there is another clean set, plus
a second back-up set, at any given time, according to Yankee. As
for those pedicure thrones, in addition to making sure that the tub
you’ll be soaking your feet in has been sanitized, Kinley
recommends asking your pedicurist to clean the bowl’s
filter-screen, so that old debris doesn’t contaminate your clean
water. Yankee adds that newer pedicure thrones are much easier to
disinfect than older ones, as they don’t contain built-in filtering
systems—just tubs and drains. “In older chairs, bacteria from the
previous client could potentially still linger in the piping if the
nail technician didn’t take the time to flush the system,” says
Yankee. As a client, it may be in your best interest to seek out a
newly-established salon with the latest-style thrones, and to show
up to your appointments early to ensure the tub you’ll be soaking
in has been properly cleaned.
Photo: © Darren Baker / Thinkstock
Article originally appeared on WomansDay.com .

You Might Also Like:
9 Secrets Of Wardrobe
Stylists
6 Common Sex Dreams Decoded
Age Defying Hairstyles
8 Bizarre Beauty Tricks
Yoga Poses That Improve Your Sex
Life

Related: shopping tips, health tips, beauty tips





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 65 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by Ashlee Harper 20 hours ago

How many times is this article going to be reposted? I've seriously seen it like 5 times!!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Goddess Melanisia 14 hours ago

Seriously, because in this economy, we all have plenty of money to spend on luxuries like manicures and pedicures.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by mobster 14 hours ago

stop masturbating...heck no

Report Abuse

 


Posted by angel 14 hours ago

You for got to mention that almost all nail salons have flunked health department exams on a routine basis

Report Abuse

 


Posted by DOTmom 14 hours ago

a $20 tip on a $30 pedicure??? that seems like someone is dreaming

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Jessie C 14 hours ago

I get a pedicure every couple or few months or so. Same thing with dying my hair.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Nick 14 hours ago

They left out "Use Palmolive!"  That's what Madge always said to do.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Wolf359 14 hours ago

How can you really tell if it's been disinfected.  They can say what they want, but if they don't speak English, what do you do then?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Renae Rose 14 hours ago

I wouldn't skimp on the tip. If I did, I wouldn't go back to the same place. They remember things like that. Same goes for restaurants.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Renae Rose 14 hours ago

I can see fingernails, but who really needs a pedicure? Can't you buy your own polish? It's not exactly rocket science. Sheesh.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 65 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Fashion + Beauty Cheat_Sheet



The prettiest fall makeup for $15 or lessKim Kardashian's wedding dress available to the masses18 fall fashion finds under $100Sign up for our What's for Dinner? newsletter




Most Popular On Fashion + Beauty


'Glee' star latest fashion victim in offensive shoot. Black and blue is not the new black. Fri Sep 2, 2011 3:16pm PDTThe Ugly Truth About What Men REALLY Think About Women Wed Sep 7, 2011 5:45pm PDTEthel Granger, woman with world’s smallest waist, inspires Vogue Italia cover Tue Sep 6, 2011 2:47pm PDT9 Things Your Nail Technician Wants to Tell You Wed Sep 7, 2011 12:07pm PDT16 things you can't wear once you're a mom Tue Sep 6, 2011 9:29am PDT


More Most Popular on Fashion + Beauty »

Updates Chatter on Shine…





The Figures of Weight Loss
by idealweightloss.com 1 minute ago





Weight Loss Tip Using Water To Lose Weight
by effective-weight-loss.com 1 minute ago





How Can I loose 20lbs Weight From Belly?
by Som 5 minutes ago





Is Obesity a Disease?
by health-and-weight-loss-tips.com 7 minutes ago





6 Tricks for Boosting Your Metabolism
by projectweightloss.com 8 minutes ago





What Men Find Attractive In Women – The 6 Qualities
by Anita A 9 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


Why designer bags are so expensive



Want to know what makes the Marc Jacobs Stam handbag so expensive? Check out these videos to get an inside look on how one of the most popular designer "It" bags is made, from idea conception to finished product. (We like the last part best.)
 Posted by Joanna Douglas, Shine Staff








Beauty FYI:

Venus gets you bikini-beautiful in 3 easy steps:  Shave. Trim. Hydrate.


Learn more »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »














Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


President Obama's American Jobs Act: How does it affect us?

How Do You Boost Spending? Make the Lady HappyWho would you put on mute?


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 1

Fashion's Night Out: Top 10 Beauty SpotsPremature Aging Signs You Shouldn't Overlook


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


The diet that science says is twice as likely to work as seeing a doctor

3 Ways to Stop Worrying About Sleep10 Foods That Boost Your Mood


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Strap on your baby and boogie!

Do you ever get tired of your kids climbing all over you? This mama does [video]Kid Sleeps at Another Family's House, Whose Rules Apply?


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


How far would you go to make your man happy?

5 Healthy (and Fun!) Fall Date IdeasGameday 101: A Girl's Guide To Men's Love For Football


More in Love + Sex »



Food


Tempting Apple Desserts

10 Beautiful Recipes From the Barefoot ContessaThe World's Coolest Markets


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Strap on your baby and boogie!

Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!5 Ways to Keep Breakfast Simple


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














