'Workout From Hell' Puts Fat To The Flames | ThePostGame






































Home
NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
NCAAF
NCAAB
NASCAR
Golf
UFC
Fantasy
















ThePostGame.
friday,
september 9, 2011







TPG home.

voices.

spotlight.

one-on-one.

life/style.

the high five.

the list.

blogs.

play!.



Training Day.
















 





 


 




hot
now.










The Blessing And Curse Of A Heisman Pose >>




Lambeau Field Has Best Eats In NFL >>




Nike To Launch Marty McFly 'Air Mag' Line? >>




Brad McCrimmon Made The Best Even Better >>




Archie Manning Launches New Orleans Eatery >>




New Wing-Eating Champ Is 105-Pound Woman >>




Mardy Fish Offers Congratulations ... Not To His Opponent >>




Fox Sports Mocks Asian Students At USC >>




'Cookie Lady' Fuels Texas Rangers >>




Bruins Defenseman Isn't Tougher Than His Big Sister >>




Rice Owls Introduce Foreign Students To Football >>




College Football: Ultimate Tailgating Rivalries >>




 
 



'Workout From Hell' Puts Fat To The Flames





Tuesday, August 30, 2011 9:50 am
Written by: Adam Campbell
 









Print





"It's medieval and unbelievable." That's how fitness expert David Jack describes this "barbell complex" -- five exercises strung together to create one serious fat-loss routine. "It's a metabolic nightmare for your body, but in a good way," says Jack, a Men’s Health advisor and director of fitness at TeamWorks in Acton, Massachusetts. 
Here at Men's Health, we don't actually call it a complex. We call it the workout from Hell. Try it just once and you'll no doubt agree: It incinerates fat and lights your muscles on fire. It may even leave you begging for mercy. (And if you really like tough workouts, make sure to try The Ultimate Fitness Challenge.)
Here’s how it works: You first put weight on the barbell. That's normal. But once you pick the barbell up, you never put it down, using the same weight to perform 5 consecutive exercises: the deadlift, straight-leg deadlift, barbell row, jump shrug, and hang clean. Watch the video below to see exactly how to do the routine.
The key: Choose your weight for all the exercises based on what you use for either the barbell row or the hang clean. These are the exercises in which you'll be the weakest. While this may seem too light when you start the routine, you'll quickly understand how challenging it can be. Do 8 reps of each exercise, then rest for 90 seconds. That’s one round. Try doing three to four rounds. This can be a workout on its own, or you can use it as “cardio” training at the end of your regular weight workout. (For more super-simple, fat-loss routines, check out the Fastest Cardio Workouts Ever.)

ThePostGame brings you the most interesting sports stories on the web.

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter to read them first!
 

And in case you're wondering, we certainly didn't invent this kind of fat torcher. (Or is it "torture"?) The credit for that goes to famed Romanian weightlifting coach Istvan Javorek. He's thought to have first brought "complex" routines to the U.S. back in the 1980s -- after he defected from Romania. Today, he's the professor of fitness at Johnson County Community College -- where he's known as "Coach Javorkian" -- which is a small school located in the Kansas City suburbs. Sound like an odd job for a guy whose athletes have medaled at the Olympics? We thought so, too. That's why we profiled this icon of fitness -- and his training methods -- in the Men’s Health feature, "Inside the Ab Labs." Enjoy.


MH Standard Player for WordPress
600x338
Theme: Light










Don't Miss.













Soccer Changes Amputee Stigma In Haiti >>







Legend Of Wrestler Slain At '72 Olympics Lives >>







Bruins Defenseman Isn't Tougher Than His Big Sister >>







Fantasy Draft: The Ultimate Bonding Experience >>







Soccer Star Brek Shea Blends Pitch With Palette >>







Why Justin Verlander Has A Shot To Win 300 >>







Bullying Victims Fight Back With Jiu-Jitsu >>







Cheerleader Boot Camp Kicks Reporter's Butt >>







Most Expensive College Football Tickets 2011 >>







Irene Crushes A Coach's Home But Not His Hope >>







Devotion To Fitness Has Boosted Mardy Fish's Career >>




 
 

Tags: Barbell Complex, Comeback-NC, David Jack, Dr. Javorkian, Fat Loss, Istvan Javorek, Men's HealthBookmark this permalink







Print



  
 
 


Training Day.




Superset Me.

 


Written by ThePostGame Staff


This is your headquarters for fitness, nutrition and sports medicine. Workout routines, diet tips and scientific advances -- they're all geared for a healthier and more enriching lifestyle.









 















 







Like ThePostGame.












 




popular blog posts.










Anti-Semetic Fantasy Leagues Removed By ESPN




The Blessing And Curse Of A Heisman Pose




Hello, McFly? Famous 'Back To The Future' Kicks May Go On Sale




Poll of the Day 9/9




Famed NFL Stadium Attacked By Mold




Fans Willing To Name Child After High School Basketball Recruit -- If He Stays Home




Native American Tribe Defends School Logo That NCAA Finds Offensive




Olympic Hero Busted After Cabbie Clash




Buffalo Bills Crowned NFL's Beauty Queens




Winning Celebrities And The Companies They Endorse



 
 















 




blog archive.






September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
December 2010
 
 FeedsPosts
 




blog roll.






SportsFanLive Partner Pulse
Hitting The Cutoff Man
The Sound Of The Suburbs
The Hockey Stop
  
 





hot
 on the magazine.










 
Bullying Victims Fight Back With Help From Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu RoyaltyHow one child stood up for himself by using moves he learned from UFC's founding Gracie family. >>  
 





 
Billy Donovan's Secret SorrowThe Florida Gators basketball coach shares a tragic bond with two of his former assistant coaches, Anthony Grant and John Pelphrey. >>  
 





 
ThePostGame Exclusive Interview: New Hall Of Famer Andre Agassi On Tennis, Family And Overhauling Education In AmericaHis push to help charter schools will ultimately exceed the impact he made on tennis. >>  
 





 
How Jose Bautista Went From Baseball Vagabond To The Game's Best SluggerHistory says Bautista should not be doing this. His power surge requires an explanation. >>  
 





 
NBA Announcer Chris Carrino: My Battle Against FSHD Muscular DystrophyFor years, he hid his struggle with FSHD, but now the radio voice of the Nets has a foundation to help all who battle this disease  >>  
 


 




things we like.











Yahoo! Fantasy SportsNews, analysis, message boards and mock drafts.   
 


   
 











Copyright © 2011 Sports Media Ventures, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This website is owned and operated by Sports Media Ventures, Inc.  To learn more about the information that Sports Media Ventures, Inc. collects on this website, and what is done with that information, please click on the Privacy Policy link below.
Yahoo! News Network
Home
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with Us







follow ThePostGame.
facebook
twitter





 
