BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closed




Article:BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closed:/c/a/2011/09/08/BA3R1L1SO1.DTL
Article:BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closed:/c/a/2011/09/08/BA3R1L1SO1.DTL










 
 


 














advertisement
|
your ad here







SFGate
Home of the San Francisco Chronicle

Subscribe to the weekend Chronicle



















SFGate

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses
| Advanced









Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Homes
Cars


Close [X]Quick links to the best of SFGate | Still can't find it? see Site Index


News »
Today


Breaking News
Live Views
Traffic
Weather

Sections

Bay Area & State
Business

Chronicle Magazine
Crime
Education
Green
Health & Medicine
Home Guides
Nation
Obituaries
Opinion
Politics
Science
Technology
Weird News
World





Sports »

49ers
Raiders
Giants
Athletics
Warriors
Sharks

More

BayList
Blogs
City Brights
Columnists
Comics
Data Center
Earthquakes
Lottery
Maps
Polls
Reader Views
Small Business
Topics



Features
Food »

Bargain Bites
Inside Scoop
Recipes
Restaurants
Top 100 Restaurants
Wine

Travel »

Hawaii
Mexico
Monterey & Carmel
Reno & Tahoe
SF Guide
Weekend Getaways
Wine Country

Living »

Garden
Green
Home & Design
LGBT
Moms
Outdoors
Pets
Ski & Snow
Style



Entertainment »

Art
Books
Horoscope
Live Music
Local Events
Movie Showtimes
Movies
Puzzles
Theater Reviews
Things To Do
TV & Radio

Classifieds »

Advertise With Us
Cars
Coupons
Real Estate
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Merchandise
Pets
Public Notices
Rentals










Bay Area & State
Nation
World
Politics
Crime
Tech
Obituaries
Education
Green
Science
Health
Weird
Opinion







more



















BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closed

Justin Berton,Vivian Ho, Chronicle Staff Writers
San Francisco Chronicle
September  8, 2011 09:17 PM
Copyright  San Francisco Chronicle. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Friday, September 9, 2011







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share


Comments 




 Georgia (default)
 Verdana
 Times New Roman
 Arial



Font | Size: 






















0











Beck Diefenbach / Special to The Chronicle
Protesters carry a banner depicting "Disarm Cops, Arm Feminists" during a protest in the Powell Street BART and MUNI station on Thursday, September 8, 2011 in San Francisco, Calif.








Images


View All Images (9)



Related Content


New SF Protest Planned For BART Powell St. Station
View























More Bay Area News

Shuttle bus strikes, injures 5-year-old in SF 09.09.11
Boy, 5, hit by shuttle in SF, critically injured 09.09.11
Man arrested in near-fatal attack of Irish athlete 09.09.11
Gov. Brown vetoes ski helmet, phone fine bills 09.08.11









SAN FRANCISCO -- 
A crowd of chanting protesters converged on the Powell Street BART Station Thursday night and confronted police in riot gear, who formed a wall to block them from approaching the pay gates and then closed the station for two hours.
At least 50 protesters chanted "No justice, no peace" as they confronted officers. Several screamed and tussled with police as they were arrested in yet another episode of commuting delays and havoc on the besieged system. 
 The demonstrators, who dubbed themselves No Justice No BART, had promised to lie down in front of the turnstiles at the downtown San Francisco station, but they didn't get that far. 
 Police surrounded a group of protesters, including reporters, and then began making arrests. The protesters yelled at police, and some apparently struggled a bit as they were detained, but there was no violence. 
Christopher Cantor, a 35-year-old protest leader from Oakland who goes by the name Krystof Lopaur; Christian Ream, 27, of San Francisco; and Mario Fernandez, 27, of Oakland, were among the protesters cuffed and led away by police during the confrontation, which began about 5:30 p.m. BART officials said 20 to 30 people were arrested on charges of disturbing the safe operation of a railroad.
Free rides
 "We weren't violating any laws, weren't causing an obstruction," complained Rick Altieri, 23, who was among the detainees. "There was no communication between police and protesters, no warning at all."
One Chronicle reporter and several student journalists were detained briefly. Meanwhile, the rest of the protesters fled up the escalators and stairs, and outside, where they chanted "Let them go, let them go." 
 Service at the station was stopped during the protest. Nobody was allowed to enter. Passengers exiting trains were allowed to exit. The Powell Station was reopened to passengers at 7:25 p.m.
The idea of the demonstration was to force BART to open the emergency exits and let passengers walk out for free. The protest group had intended to inconvenience the agency without inconveniencing passengers, but it didn't work out that way.
 Agency officials had announced earlier in the day that they would not bow to the demands of the protesters.
 "If they block the fare gates and do so in violation of the law, they are subject to arrest," said BART spokesman Jim Allison. 
 It was the latest in a series of actions by a large group of protesters who hope to force the transit agency to disband its police force. The group is upset about a BART police officer's fatal shooting of a transient on July 3 at Civic Center Station, allegedly as the man wound up to throw a knife. They are also angry about the agency's decision Aug. 11 to shut down underground wireless service to thwart a planned protest.
 A hack attack was among the various disruptive tactics. Hackers infiltrated the myBART.org and BART police union sites last month and leaked private information, including the addresses of officers, in response to the agency's shutdown of wireless service Aug. 11.
Little sympathy
 The cause has not generated a lot of sympathy from passengers.
Several angry pedestrians and commuters confronted the demonstrators Thursday as they chanted and loitered outside the closed station, accusing them of selfishly disrupting train service and inconveniencing commuters. 
"I think they are really being inconsiderate," said Bruce Halperin, 24, of San Francisco, who argued with several of the demonstrators. "They have the right to protest but they are abridging other people's rights by crowding the fare gates and not letting other people move about." 
Commuters angered
 Past demonstrations against BART over the past several weeks have infuriated commuters, who have been delayed when the agency closed stations in response to the protesters' actions. Some angry commuters have shouted at protesters, and one attacked them.
 Allison said BART's response to the demonstration adds to an estimated $300,000 price tag for dealing with the protests in downtown San Francisco.
"In the past, there have been spontaneous events, including antiwar and immigration rallies and the Giants (World Series) parade, where it was safer to open the swing gates and let everyone through," Allison said. "But I'm not aware of any case where someone has announced in advance, 'We're going to do this and you must open the swing gates' " he said, referring to the emergency exits that the protesters sought to have opened Thursday. 

E-mail the writers at jberton@sfchronicle.com and vho@sfchronicle.com.
This article appeared on page C - 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share











0
























Subscribe to the San Francisco Chronicle and receive access to the Chronicle for iPad App and a gift:

Sunday + a $15 gift card
Fri-Sun + a $15 gift card
Mon-Sun + a $25 gift card







BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closed
Articles
A crowd of chanting protesters converged on the Powell Street BART Station Thursday night and confronted police in riot gear, who formed a wall to block them from approaching the pay gates and then closed the station...









Woman charged with Le's murder





Mom defends girl's hooker costume





Where are these 9/11 survivors?





Ben & Jerry's reveals new flavor





Panhandlers turn to intimidation


















Galleries

1-3 of 21
















Ko Olina: Hawaii's magic kingdom...



Miss Universe National Costumes



Spanish accents still flavor the...



S.F. Symphony 100th anniversary gala



GQ Men of the Year Awards



Famous 9/11 faces: Where are they now?



Burning Man 2011: Rites of passage...



My Ride - 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera...



Ski season in 'Lord of the Rings...



Limelight Listing - Michael Bay's...



Modern San Anselmo home with...



Feelin' groovy: Men's fashion in the...



Burning Man alternative: A tour of S...



At Koi Palace, it's mooncake mania



Guadalajara gears up for the Pan...



Venice Film Festival 2011



Renovated Noe Valley contemporary...



The making of one of the finest...



Blessing of the Grapes



2011 VMAs: Red carpet report



Tango in S.F. Bay Area














advertisement
|
your ad here

















Beauty pageant mom defends daughter's hooker costumeJerry Brown's revised jobs plan passes AssemblyNOTES More surgery for Manning - season in doubtYahoo Chairman Roy Bostock May Lose Own Job After Firing BartzSF Giants' roster - who won't be back in 2012?Fossil find an odd mix of ape, humanOutage affects millions in Southwest, Mexico


Ben & Jerry's unveils Schweddy Balls ice creamSupernova to be visible for up to 2 weeksSeemingly drunk Swedish moose found stuck in treeKitchen staff walks out at Castagnola's in S.F.FBI serves search warrants at SolyndraBART protesters arrested - Powell Station closedAggressive S.F. panhandlers, tourist complaints up


Aggressive S.F. panhandlers, tourist complaints upObama to Congress: 'Pass this jobs bill'BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closedKitchen staff walks out at Castagnola's in S.F.FBI serves search warrants at SolyndraFront-runner Rick Perry takes heat at GOP debateEx-classmate charged with murder of Michelle Le











From Our Homepage





'No justice, no peace'
At least 50 protesters force BART to close the Powell Street station for two hours. Photos
 Comments & Replies (0)





Bad feeling in a good way
'Contagion' is like an epic 1970s disaster film. LaSalle.
 Comments & Replies (0)


Trailer |
5 best Soderbergh movies





Symphony's happy 100th
Maestro Michael Tilson Thomas helps open centennial celebration.
 Comments & Replies (0)


Photos: Glam on opening night











































Ford
2006 Taurus$8,495


Ford
2006 Explorer$16,995


Honda
2000 Civic$7,995


Nissan
2008 Altima$18,981


Toyota
2008 Corolla$12,995


Honda
2009 Civic$15,995


Lincoln
2006 Navigator$20,995


Nissan
2010 Xterra$20,995


Nissan
2010 Xterra$20,995


BMW
2008 X5$39,995















More From This Dealer »


















Real Estate



Spacious Alameda home with secluded backyard
This 1939 house is on a dead-end street with a big, secluded yard. Asking $849K.

Michael Bay's Santa Monica estate
The homes at Burning Man
What you can buy in SF for $580,000



Search Real Estate »












Cars



Mercedes' profit envy
Mercedes-Benz plans to expand its lineup of high-end luxury cars and sport-utility vehicles in an effort to surpass BMW's record profits.

Car batteries jump-start mileage
My Ride: 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera Cabriolet
 Photo: Share pics of your car



Search Cars »
















Browse ads |
                Place an ad »














[Return to top]

Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Buy & Sell
Find Bay Area Jobs
Real Estate
Cars
Site Index



Advertising Services:

Advertise with us
Place a Classified
About Our Ads
Public Notices
Local Businesses: Business Directory



Reader Services:

Home Delivery
Subscribers
iPad
E-Edition
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Newsletters
Feedback
Buy Photos
FAQ
Corrections
Get Us



Company Info:

Contact Us
Hearst Corp.
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Work for Us
Chronicle in Education
Events & Promotions
Submissions








© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.




Be the first to share your thoughts on this story.
Share your thoughts on this story.
 - be the first to share your thoughts on this question.
 - Sorry, comments are closed for this story.

BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closed
Articles
A crowd of chanting protesters converged on the Powell Street BART Station Thursday night and confronted police in riot gear, who formed a wall to block them from approaching the pay gates and then closed the station...




























