"No containment" of Texas wildfire - CBS News 
       
        


    
   CBSNews.com | CBS Evening News | The Early Show | 48 Hours | 60 Minutes | Sunday Morning | Face the Nation | Up to the Minute
    Sign In With 
Log In
|
 Register   

Your Profile
|
Log Out                The Early Show     Home Showbiz Parenting Health Money Tech Saturday Contributors Bios                 



Scroll Left Scroll Right





U.S.
Car bomb threat to NYC, D.C. "credible"
1 of 9



Gallery
9/11: Images from then and now
2 of 9



Political Hotsheet
Obama unveils $447B jobs plan
3 of 9



Political Hotsheet
Obama's jobs gamble
4 of 9



U.S.
Blackout in Southwest leaves 5M in the dark
5 of 9



Gallery
Terror attacks, attempts since 9/11
6 of 9



Gallery
Fall films 2011
7 of 9



HealthPop
Study: Moms who breast-feed more aggressive
8 of 9



Sports
Americans shine on sunny day at U.S. Open
9 of 9





      September 6, 2011 8:08 AM    Print Text      "No containment" of Texas wildfire      189 Comments  Have Your Say  Email StorySend to a Friend Share ThisTell Your Friends Tweet ThisTweet This MoreShare It      .      Del.icio.us Facebook Stumbleupon   Newsvine Yahoo bookmarks Mixx   Digg Reddit Google Bookmarks   Twitter LinkedIn              Play CBS News Video     (CBS/AP)  Last Updated 9:52 a.m. ET

BASTROP, Texas - Firefighters trying to control a wind-fueled wildfire that has destroyed nearly 600 homes in Central Texas were looking for a few overnight hours of diminished winds as thousands of evacuees spent the night away from their threatened homes.

There's been no significant rainfall over central Texas for a year, said CBS News correspondent Dean Reynolds, and today the consequences of that are being seen in Bastrop and other areas. 

Since December, wildfires have consumed 3.6 million acres of Texas - an area the size of the state of Connecticut. 

Unfortunately, there is no rainfall in the forecast for the foreseeable future. 

The Texas Forest Service put out statement saying, "This is unprecedented fire behavior. No one on the face of this Earth has ever fought fires in these extreme conditions." 

Tom Boggus, director of the Texas Forest Service, told CBS' "The Early Show" that as of this morning "There's no containment right now." 


"Historic" Texas wildfires 








"We've been in a defensive mode for a couple of days now, and really all you can do is get people out of the way, protect homes where you can, and make sure our firefighters are safe," Boggus told anchor Erica Hill. "But today, the winds have died down so we can probably be much more aggressive, and we hopefully can get some containment on all these fires in the Austin area." 

Texas wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes
Winds whip up Texas wildfires


Texas Gov. Rick Perry left the campaign trail Monday and returned to Texas for the latest outbreak of blazes. He told "The Early Show" Tuesday that he doesn't know whether he will participate in the first Republican debate since he entered the raced for president while his state continues to battle persistent wildfires.

Perry mum on GOP debate as Texas wildfires rage

Boggus said 90 percent of wildfires are caused by people - directly, or through the electricity used by us. Texans are aware of the fire dangers. "People get it, they understand it," he said. "Especially now it's heightened with the news media ... people understand to be very, very careful. And with the high winds people understood how dangerous and how volatile this state is. 

"It's historic. We've never seen fire seasons like this. We've never seen drought like this. This is an historic time that we're living in, and so people know and understand they've got to be extremely careful," Boggus said. (To watch the interview click on the video player below.) 



Social media relief efforts in Central Texas grow
Texas Forest Service: Wildfire information
Incident Information System

For Bastrop hotel owner Mona Patel, the wildfire left her no room to maneuver: "They just gave us the final warning to leave right now," she said. "It's scary. My mind's lost. I don't know what to do."
 It was a sentiment shared by some 5,000 people who've been forced from their homes, or what's left of them, and a wall of smoke and fire 16 miles long blackened the croplands of central Texas dotted with parched and highly combustible pine and cedar trees. 
 "Didn't look like it was going to get to our house," said resident Steve Conti. "But then the wind changed direction and came through." 
 "Five minutes is all we had, five minutes," said Josephina Morales, one of the 400 people in emergency shelters right now. "I left with my clothes on my back and that was it. 
 "It was scary, when you go back to the driveway, it was just like two blocks, three blocks down the road," Morales said. 
 Scary is how many Texans are describing the scene: "We were just all scared, hoping that we have some kind of mercy if God sees us," said Mona Patel. 
 The wind came from Tropical Storm Lee, but not the rains - no moisture at all to stem the wildfire's rapid advance. 

Boggus of the Texas Forest Service said he will continue to request resources from out-of state to supplement the firefighters on the ground, many of whom are volunteers. 
 "In Texas the number one line of defense are volunteer firemen," he said. "So we're there to support them. But all the firefighters are fatigued. And that's really our concern right now is getting replacements in here, making sure our firefighters are safe and get rested, so we can attack this fire head-on."
 Boggus said 12,000 individuals have come from across the United States to help battle wildfires. But, he added, "We're not the only crisis going on. The tropical storm still causes issues. Irene causes issues in the northeast, and California and Arizona are having fires. So we know we're not the only game in town, but we're going to continue to request resources and we're going to use what we have wisely."

   


Slack winds were expected after midnight Tuesday, enabling firefighters to make progress on the massive blaze racing through rain-starved farm and ranchland.

"You have to be optimistic and at the same time prepared for the worst," Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said Monday night, acknowledging the weather's unpredictability.
    1 2 Next Page »        © 2011 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.       189 Comments  Have Your Say  Email StorySend to a Friend Share ThisTell Your Friends Tweet ThisTweet This MoreShare It       Add a Comment  1 2 3 4 ... 8 Next »  See all 189 Comments      by pahgre September 7, 2011 1:38 AM EDT  by kevjustice September 6, 2011 6:51 PM EDTtexas gov says: PLEASE DON'T SEND FEDERAL AID. WE HATE GOVERNMENT. WELL, MAYBE WE WILL TAKE THE AID AFTER ALL. DON'T TELL ANYBODY THOUGH.=====================================================================For months, Texas Gov. Rick Perry berated President Obama and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for not giving the state more federal money to combat historic wildfires. Despite the fact that the administration offered 26 different kinds of federal assistance to combat the fires, Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) claimed that Obama is waging "a war on Texas." After months of blaming the President for not doing enough, Reuters reported yesterday that Perry is poised to sign a budget that slashes funding for the state agency that is battling the wildfires.Republicans control all three branches of government in Texas and slashed state funding for volunteer fire departments from $30 million to $7 million, during an unprecedented and destructive wildfire season. Perry's recent boast that Texas is "a model for the nation in disaster preparedness and response" is especially ironic in light of his approval of cutting Forest Service funds when the agency most needs them.Gov. perry said "And I'll promise you this: I'll work every day to make Washington, D.C. as inconsequential in your life as I can."Unless of course it's for FEMA funds only for texass, after preacher perry and the teapublicans slashed state funding for volunteer fire departments from $30 million to $7 million, during an unprecedented and destructive wildfire season.     Reply to this comment            by pahgre September 7, 2011 1:00 AM EDT  --There are 879 volunteer fire departments in Texas, compared to 114 paid departments and 187 that are a combination of both--Texas Republicans have voted to cut funding for volunteer firefighters by over 75%.By the way -- Governor Perry's solution for all of this was simple: pray.     Reply to this comment            by pahgre September 7, 2011 12:49 AM EDT  Texas cut fire department funding by 75 percent this yearUnder Gov. Rick Perry this year, Texas slashed state funding for the volunteer fire departments that protect most of the state from wildfires like the ones that have recently destroyed more than 1,000 homes.Volunteer departments that were already facing financial strain were slated to have their funding cut from $30 million to $7 million, according to KVUE.While the Texas governor has been highly critical of FEMA in the past, he told CBS' Erica Hill Tuesday that now was not the time to worry about reforming the agency.http://www.kvue.com/video/featured-videos/Volunteer-firefighters-in-Texas-struggle-with-financial-crisis-118510059.html     Reply to this comment            by rednecklogic September 6, 2011 9:10 PM EDT  Are these fires being started by people burning science books that teach evolution?     Reply to this comment           by Zann-Zel September 7, 2011 9:28 AM EDT  I've heard the one near us was started by high winds knocking down a power line. And another by a car that caught on fire. Another rumor was someone bushhogging.....and the rumors keep flying!                         by esq777 September 6, 2011 8:31 PM EDT  Pray harder Righteous Rick, pray harder. Down and your knees and repent.     Reply to this comment            by Dastardly_Dick September 6, 2011 8:31 PM EDT  Bugwips and that other Jerk have too much time on their hands.     Reply to this comment            by ludvig1-2009 September 6, 2011 7:33 PM EDT  Fire instead of rain. Who was Perry praying to?     Reply to this comment           by JAMESC2002 September 6, 2011 7:41 PM EDT  Seeing he is a M0R0NGELICAL christian-type ....                         by JV1970 September 6, 2011 7:12 PM EDT  I don't care what you think of these Texans and it doesn't matter. These people are human beings and they are hurting. They are losing everything they have. One woman even lost her life along with the life of her 18 month old baby. No matter what you think of these people they don't deserve that! You should be praying for them and trying to help them rather than criticize them because these people are our fellow Americans and it could just as easily be you next time!     Reply to this comment           by JAMESC2002 September 6, 2011 7:28 PM EDT  Granny - instead of wasting your time praying to imaginary gods (ifyou are REALLY concerned) ... get off your (I am guessing) sizableduff and DO SOMETHING CONSTRUCTIVE TO HELP.                      by JV1970 September 6, 2011 8:54 PM EDT  JAMES First of all GOD is NOT imaginary and second I AM doing what I can to help! You should do the same!                         by kevjustice September 6, 2011 6:51 PM EDT  texas gov says: PLEASE DON'T SEND FEDERAL AID. WE HATE GOVERNMENT. WELL, MAYBE WE WILL TAKE THE AID AFTER ALL. DON'T TELL ANYBODY THOUGH.     Reply to this comment            by JAMESC2002 September 6, 2011 6:16 PM EDT  by sean49z September 6, 2011 5:12 PM EDT Where will Barack find the money for FEMA and the U.S. Fire Administration for these rampant wild fires? Obama insists that American Forces will invade Syria to remove Assad. He spent trillions of dollars fighting throughout the Middle East.==========================================Are you just stupid ? A liar ??Or .... A STUPID LIAR ???     Reply to this comment        1 2 3 4 ... 8 Next »  See all 189 Comments     Add a comment     Subscribe to this comment thread by email  SUBMIT         Click here to add another comment.   The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.          Comment reply         Subscribe to this comment thread by email  Submit Cancel    The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.     Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense:  Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language  Spam: Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts  Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users  Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content  Off-topic: Commentary unrelated to the storyline Comments (optional):       Report Cancel     E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to:  Your e-mail address:   Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it.      Send e-mail Cancel        .      Del.icio.us Facebook Stumbleupon   Newsvine Yahoo bookmarks Mixx   Digg Reddit Google Bookmarks   Twitter LinkedIn       




Popular Now in The Early Show


60 Photos
America's 11 most endangered historic places


26 Photos
Surf's up! Monster waves hit Calif.


55 Photos
Inside Amish life





Should sex be mandatory in marriage? 
Giant shark off San Diego shore 
Perry mum on GOP debate as Texas wildfires rage 
Giant crocodile captured alive 
Reese Witherspoon hit by car while jogging 
Teen's Facebook Sex Scam 
Drunk moose gets stuck in tree 
Great white shark spotted among Calif. surfers 
Never-before-seen 9/11 photos on display in NYC 
The Best Pregnancy Tests 
Treadmills: Danger at our feet 
Fantasy football wives: the new kind of fan 
More organ seekers turning to Web to find them 
9/11: Never before released audio recordings 
How Pearl Harbor, 9/11 changed U.S. forever 
FDNY family remembers one of its own 
Giant crocodile caught on camera near tourist boat 



Latest CBS News Headlines

Bono, The Edge rock Toronto film fest with U2 doc
Stronger police presence in DC for 9/11 observance
NYC heightens security to counter potential threat
8 drown, 10 students rescued as China ferry sinks

Popular CBS News Stories on Facebook

Retailers push new plus-size options
Dutch woman calls ex-boyfriend 65,000 times
Text of President Obama's jobs speech
Soulja Boy apologizes for anti-military rap: Was it too late?
Power is back for some across Southwest

Most Discussed Stories on CBS News


Obama's jobs plan may top $400 billion


Fact checking GOP debate claims


Rick Perry doubles down on Ponzi


Survey: 3M more U.S. pot smokers in last decade


Lawsuits challenging Obama health care shot down



 
 

  



   


Most Popular on CBS News


Stories
More »




01Obama unveils $447B jobs plan



02Power is back for some across Southwest



03Panties puzzle: Thousands left on Ohio road



04Feds watching possible terror plot for NY, D.C.



05Flashpoint in Romney-Perry fight: Social Security






























Videos
More »



01J. Cole, Rihanna sex tape?


02Giant shark off San Diego shore


03Evening News Online, 09.08.11







38 Photos |  View Gallery »
Model sues "Price is Right" producers for sexual harassment



10 Photos |  View Gallery »
Day in pictures



29 Photos |  View Gallery »
New York Fashion Week: Day 1



10 Photos |  View Gallery »
BCBG reveals sporty  new look



28 Photos |  View Gallery »
Fall films 2011




Scroll Left


Scroll Right
More »



   







 CBS News on Facebook              

  CBS News Copyright © 2011 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.              CBSNews.com Site Map Video Site Map Mobile/WAP Site Help Contact Us CBS Bios Careers Internships Development Programs  


Topics
China
United Nations
Social Security
North Korea
Terrorism
Capital Punishment
Immigration
Gay Marriage


Foreclosures
Debt Crisis
Massacre in Norway
Election 2012
Marijuana
Rupert Murdoch


 Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Email Newsletters YouTube CBS Mobile 


CBS News Mobile

CBS News for Android


The CBS News app for Android smartphones offers breaking headlines and video as well as the latest from The Early Show, 60 Minutes and more.

Learn more...



    Visit other CBS Interactive sites:  Select Site BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet     BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet   Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement About CBS Advertise   



    

                 