Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes near Texas capital; at least 5,000 people evacuated - The Washington Post









Print Subscription


Conversations
Today's Paper






Going Out Guide




Jobs




Cars




Real Estate




Rentals




Classifieds







Home


Politics





Campaign 2012
			


Congress
			


Courts &
				Law


The Fed Page


Health Care








				Polling
			


White House
			


Who Runs Gov


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

The Fix | Chris Cillizza
2chambers | Felicia Sonmez
Federal Eye | Ed O’Keefe
Fact Checker | Glenn Kessler
















Opinions





All Opinions


PostPartisan


Left-Leaning


Right-Leaning


Toles
				Cartoons
			








				Telnaes
				Animations


Local


Columnist Index












Local





DC: 
Politics
| News


MD: 
Politics
| Communities


VA: 
Politics
| Communities


Crime
			


Education
			







On Faith/Local
			


Obituaries
			


Traffic & Commuting
			


Weather
			


Blogs & Columns
			


The Root DC
			





Top Blogs

Capital Weather Gang | Wicked weather slowly wanes
Dr. Gridlock | What commuters need to know
State of NoVa | Boy raises $42K for service dogs
Answer Sheet | Is modernizing schools necessary?









Sports






				Redskins/NFL



				Capitals/NHL


Wizards/NBA


Nationals/MLB



				DC United/Soccer








				Colleges


AllMetSports


Other Sports


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Capitals Insider| Katie Carrera
Nationals Journal| Adam Kilgore
Soccer Insider| Steven Goff
The Insider| Mike Jones









National





Corrections


Energy & Environment


Health & Science


Higher Education


National Security







On Faith
			


On Leadership


Innovations


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Ideas@Innovations
Post Leadership
Under God
Checkpoint Washington









World





Africa
			


The
				Americas


Asia &
				Pacific


Europe
			


Middle East
			







National Security


War Zones
			


Special Reports


Checkpoint Washington












Business






				Economy
			


Industries


Local Business


Markets


Policy
				&
				Regulation







Technology
			


World
				Business


Blogs & Columns


Innovations


Special Reports





Top Blogs

Ezra Klein
Post Tech | Cecilia Kang
Faster Forward
Political Economy









Investigations
















Lifestyle





Advice
			


Carolyn Hax
			


Food
			


Home & Garden
			


Style
			







Travel
			


Weddings
			


Wellness
			


Magazine


KidsPost





Top Blogs

On Parenting | Janice D’Arcy
Arts Post | Jacqueline Trescott
The Checkup | Jennifer LaRue Huget & Rob Stein
All We Can Eat | Food section









Entertainment





Books


Celebrities


Comics
			


Going Out Guide


Horoscopes







Movies


Museums
			


Puzzles
			


Theater & Dance


TV
			





Top Blogs

Reliable Source | Roxanne Roberts & Amy Argetsinger
TV Column | Lisa de Moraes
Celebritology | Jen Chaney
Click Track | Chris Richards & David Malitz









Multimedia





Innovations



				Photos
			



				Videos
			



























The Washington Post
The Washington Post












Corrections
Energy & Environment
Health & Science
Higher Education
National Security
On Faith
			
On Leadership
Innovations
Blogs & Columns






In the News


Carol Bartz


Saints-Packers


Peyton Manning


Al-Qaeda


Rick Perry


FEMA

























???initialComments:true! pubdate:09/05/2011 03:16 EDT! commentPeriod:3! commentEndDate:9/8/11 3:16 EDT! currentDate:9/9/11 7:28 EDT! allowComments:false! displayComments:true!







Top StoriesHide me


















Wal-Mart brings back layaway for holiday






Two million years old, fossil shows ‘snapshot of evolution in action’








Flood warnings, evacuation orders issued for parts of East Coast






Keep football fantasies to yourself








Fact checking the GOP debate at the Reagan library






Marine cologne: Branding the armed forces








Wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes near Texas capital; at least 5,000 people evacuated






View Photo Gallery —  Wildfires fueled by extremely dry conditions and strong winds destroyed dozens of homes in Oklahoma City and North Texas.






Text Size

Print
E-mail
Reprints












						By  Associated Press, 








BASTROP, Texas — A roaring wildfire raced through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas on Monday, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance that was fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.
At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said.




 Loading...

Comments


Weigh In
Corrections?




















Video




Officials in Texas say they are running out of resources as they battle dozens of wildfires. High winds from Tropical Storm Lee are fanning the flames. (Sept. 5)









Strong winds and drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. The blaze consumed as much as 25,000 acres along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said.Huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over downtown Bastrop, a town of about 6,000 people along the Colorado River. The fire was far enough away from Austin that the city was not threatened, officials said.Firefighters lined up on a state highway outside Bastrop and converged around homes as they caught fire, hoping to save them. Helicopters and planes loaded with water could be seen flying to and from the fire. When winds increased, flames would flare up and pop out over the tops of trees.The wildfire destroyed 476 homes, and about 250 firefighters were working around the clock, using bulldozers and pumper trucks against the fire, Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said.Mike Fischer, the county emergency management director, said the fire is “nowhere near controlled,” and that a separate, smaller blaze south of the city was growing larger. “I wasn’t going to evacuate, but then the smoke got blacker and blacker and it was like: ‘OK, time to go,’” said Gina Thurman, 47, an analyst for the Texas Workforce Commission. “Waiting is the most frustrating thing,” she said, choking back tears as she sat by herself in the shade on a curb outside Ascension Catholic Church, one of several shelter sites. “You’re sitting there and you don’t know anything but your house is probably burning.”Rick Blakely, 54, was among about 30 people who slept on cots at the church. He said he was in a state of shock and “not expecting anything to be standing” when he finally returned to his home. “I just don’t know what I’m going to do,” he said.The new outbreak led Gov. Rick Perry to return home to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president. He also canceled a trip to California.Perry viewed the fire from the air and conferred with local officials. He said seeing the fire was a “surreal” experience. “I’ve seen a number of big fires in my life,” he said. “This is as mean looking as I’ve ever seen, particularly because it was so close to the city.”Since December, wildfires in Texas have claimed 3.5 million acres, an area the size of Connecticut, Perry said. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, he said.Perry said it was too early to say whether he would attend Wednesday’s GOP debate in California.









Continued

1

2

Next Page















EmailTumblr
Reddit
Stumbleupon
Digg
Delicious
















Weigh In

Discussion Policy


About Discussions, Badges


 


 








Newest first


Oldest first


Most Recommended first












SuperFan
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Culture Connoisseur
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Fact Checker
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Washingtologist
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Writer
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


World Watcher
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.


You must be logged in to report a comment.
Sign in here


You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
Sign in here


Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
More about badgesGet a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused".  If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.




+ SHARE THIS DEBATE
























The Post Most: NationMost-viewed stories, videos and galleries int he past two hours



Most Popular

Woman who lost parents on 9/11 will always wonder: Why?
Afghan journalist was mistakenly killed by U.S. soldier, NATO investigation concl
Federal prosecutor says in court that Mo. man admitted to killing his missing est
Brennan: Al-Qaeda offshoot in Yemen gaining strength as a powerful domestic insur
New Mexico officer videotaped having sex on car accused of propositioning DWI sus




Top Videos

Flooding causes evacuation of 100,000 in Pa.
With no ammunition, pilot ordered to take down United 93
Shanksville: A small town, forever changed
Newly-released video of Osama bin Laden
'Gumby' tries to rob store




Top Galleries

The North American International Auto Show kicks off in Detroit
Wildfires force evacuations in Oklahoma, North Texas
Supernovas of a generation
Autodesk: Innovations in 3-D printing design
Tropical Storm Lee pelts the Gulf Coast








Live Discussions




Ask Now


Analyzing Obama’s job speech
Live Q&A TONIGHTRobert Kaiser analyzes and takes questions on President Obama’s job speech as soon as it ends. 



 




11:00 AM

Real Wheels Live



11:00 AM

Live Fix with Chris Cillizza



11:00 AM

NFC East Trash Talk with TheRootDC



12:00 PM

Dana Milbank Live: Obama's jobs speech, Mitt Romney vs. Rick Perry, and more



12:00 PM

Carolyn Hax Live: Advice columnist tackles your problems (Friday, Sept. 9)



1:00 PM

Why cohabitation is worse than divorce for kids



1:00 PM

Predicting the Washington Redskins' 2011 season (video)





Weekly schedule, past shows


Connect with the Post




























Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post





Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post



Twitter: Follow us on Twitter



RSS: Subscribe to our RSS feeds



Alerts: Sign up for news alerts



Mobile: Washington Post on the go



App Store: View our iPhone applications



 
Today's Paper






Full Paper
Metro
Style
Sports

Updated newspaper stories



National Newsletters
Sign-up for e-mail newsletters and alerts and get the news you need delivered directly to your inbox.
 




Economy & Business News Alerts
Behind the Government Showdown
National News Alerts




The Most
Today's Headlines & Columnists








See all Washington Post Newsletters


Featured Reads

Right Turn
Jennifer Rubin offers reported opinion from a conservative perspective.



The Root D.C.
A new space for the Washington area’s African-American community.



Political Economy
Where Washington meets big business.








Network News      
   				Hide this






Most Popular
Friends' Activity
Most Popular
Most Tweeted
Twitter Activity





Most Popular Right Now






Your Friends’ Most Recent Activity



















Follow The Post:
Facebook
Twitter
View More Activity



















Featured Advertiser LinksOil Spill, Mesothelioma Class Action, Fosamax Fracture, Asbestos & Veterans , Actos Bladder Cancer>>Topamax Side Effects, Mesothelioma Treatment, Yaz Blood Clot, Asbestos cancer, Actos, Mesothelioma Symptoms>>Join Pres. Obama. It's time to do it again.>>Are you in? Join Barack Obama's campaign now.>>Help Pres. Obama keep moving America forward.>>Join the 2012 campaign at BarackObama.com>>Looking to buy a home? Visit TWP Real Estate section for the latest open houses.>>Make Your Vanguard Investing More Profitable - Free Research Report Reveals Best & Worst Funds>>
































Top national Stories
			

People Also Read
			

Most Popular Videos





















Woman who lost parents on 9/11 will always  wonder: Why?
Dan Zak  
							



Afghan journalist was mistakenly killed by U.S. soldier, NATO investigation concludes
Jason Ukman  
							


Federal prosecutor says in court that Mo. man admitted to killing his missing estranged wife
Associated Press  
							



Brennan: Al-Qaeda offshoot in Yemen gaining strength as a powerful domestic insurgency
Karen Deyoung  
							




New Mexico officer videotaped having sex on car accused of propositioning DWI suspect
Associated Press  
							


On jobs, Obama needs to be a radical
Vivek Wadhwa  
							



Delhi earthquake shakes city for a second time after deadly bomb blast
Melissa Bell  
							


No prayer for 9/11?
On Faith  
							




9/11 in rear view (lessons in plain sight)
T.d. Jakes  
							


Since 9/11, Pentagon police officer unable to forget hurt man he tried to help
Stephanie Mccrummen  
							



Owling: The new planking?
Elizabeth Flock  
							


Rick Perry and the science of leading America
Jena Mcgregor  
							





What have we learned about religion post-9/11?
Elizabeth Tenety  
							


The horror of death and the hope of resurrection
Mark Driscoll  
							


Scientists call for end to deep-sea fishing
Juliet Eilperin  
							


Wildfires in Central Texas destroy nearly 1,400 homes in Bastrop County, blazes continue
Associated Press  
							




From 9/11 to the Arab Spring: What Americans now know about Muslims
Feisal Abdul Rauf  
							


Our post-9/11 failures
Desmond Tutu  
							


Man who lost wife on 9/11 finds way to fill the void
Joel Achenbach  
							



September 11, 2001: The stories we told ourselves
Melissa Bell  
							




9/11 widow still trying to find her new normal since the Pentagon attack
Eli Saslow  
							





































Ways you can get us

Mobile
Apps
Newsletter & alerts
RSS
Post Store
Facebook
Photo Store
Twitter
Washington Post Live



The Washington Post

About Us
Work for us
Community Relations
PostPoints
Corrections/Suggestions
Archive
Contact the Ombudsman
Report a problem



Web site

Make us your homepage
Digital Guidelines

Newspaper

Subscribe
Home delivery service
e-Replica
Reprints



Advertise

In the newspaper
On the web site
Mobile
Events

The Washington Post Company

Post Company web sites



Partners

Slate
Who Runs Gov
Express Night Out
Captial Business
El Tiempo Latino
The Root
Foreign Policy
Trove


Post Tickets
Capitol Deal
Service Alley
Post Master Class
WP Live
Student Advisory



© 1996- The Washington Post
User Agreement and Privacy Policy
Rights and Permissions


Help
Contact Us
Ad Choices


















