Celebrities who were bullied as kids - Parenting on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Parenting
Friday, September 9, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: yahoo! mother boardback to schoolfall fashion




Celebrities who were bullied as kids



editor


by Piper Weiss, Shine Staff, on Tue Sep 6, 2011 7:51pm PDT


525 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse









Prev Next
20 photos













photo 1 of 20

Prev
Next



The Teen Idol
Bully-phobia: a deep-rooted fear of returning to school after summer break, due to potential hecklers and unprecedented taunts. Yeah, we've been there. So have some of the most successful humans on the planet. If you're wondering how you're going to survive another year of trash-talkers, look to the stars. They fared pretty well, despite the endless cruelty of their classmates. It seems to be a running theme: get bullied in high school for being different, become a huge success as an adult. Exhibit A: Robert Pattinson, better known now as R-Patz. Before he was double-fisting MTV movie awards, he was getting slammed against lockers. As a kid he had bigger problems than fending off vampire impulses.
Getty Images







Related on Shine:
How to bullyproof your teen
5 signs of a bully
When the bully becomes the bullied
I found my childhood bully on Facebook

Follow Yahoo! Shine on  Twitter, "like" us on
Facebook


Related: school, madonna, lady gaga, celebrity yearbook, bullies, back to school





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 525 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by Gemma 17 hours ago

YEAH!I was picked on a lot as a kid. Not so much physical bullying (a little bit), but mostly taunting, calling names, teasing, being mean.  My parents were not rich and I wore a lot of hand-me-downs and low-end clothes, thrift store stuff. To top it off I've always been a bit of a weirdo, and I was extremely smart in school (top of just about every class). Mostly because I just kept my head down and stayed quiet and kept busy and out of people's way.I don't stand out so much for my smarts these days, as I got into academia - where everyone is smart and weird LOL. But I do have a job that people always gasp at and tell me how they wish they could have a job like mine, and I do have a unique look and style that I'm sure many people laugh at, but I do get complimented also. I'm by no means the most gorgeous or rich or sought-after person around, but I am very happy with a great life, a gorgeous husband, an amazing farm, a cool job, and I'm unique. I'm not trying to blow my own trumpet, but I think I'm an example of a big collection of people - a lot of people who were bullied for being different as kids are the people that stand out as adults.  Bullying is just what people do when they are jealous of you.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by FlowerPower 16 hours ago

I was never the cool kid or the one that got punked. I guess I'm pretty normal.Great article!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Doug S 16 hours ago

Performing arts kids are typical bully targets because, let's face it, they're usually socially retarded wimps in school who would rather take a dance class than attend a football team pep rally.  Not that there's anything wrong with that.  But, one in a million becomes a star, and then everything they ever did becomes cool.  For them.  But not for the 999,999 other theater club/glee club denizens, who just move on from high school without anyone ever really noticing.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Rachael 16 hours ago

funny - the kids in the theater program at my old high school were the biggest bullying assholes around. Bunch of wannabe elitists who fancied themselves as artistic. The jocks, cheerleaders etc. really just bullied their own more or less.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Giz 15 hours ago

Doug, you're an idiot.  Grow up.  I guess maybe you were one of those guys whose life pretty much ended after high school.  I was a performing arts kid, as well as a gymnast.  I was small and quiet and when I tried to do team sports, no one would give me a chance.  I was teased and called unathletic before anyone let me try anything because I was small, skinny and not confident, loud or obnoxious enough to "compensate for it".  I was smart, good musically, could speak well on stage and was a decent actress, so I found a place with the artsy kids.  Acting and singing let me escape myself.I was brutalized in school - physically, mentally and to an extent, sexually (guys grabbing at my chest while their friends held me down and girls laughed because I "had nothing there, so it didn't matter", etc.).  Through the course of my schooling, I was knocked out by having my head shoved into a locker, given black eyes, pushed down several flights of stairs, teased to the point where I had borderline body dismorphic disorder, etc.  Administrators were no help and told me to suck it up and try harder to fit in because I was antagonizing my classmates and should "feel lucky" that I was getting attention at all.  I'm a fairly well adjusted adult, but it affected me to a large extent.  The combination of the bullying from students and a non-funtional school enviornment contributed to my nearly failing out, despite a near genius IQ.  The situation was so stressful, that walking into the building could cause a panic attack.  There were several points where dying seemed like a more attractive option than having to face my classmates.   I'm pretty successful now.  I've accomplished a decent amount. As soon as I was out of school the panic attacks stopped and anxiety has pretty much never been an issue; however that situation damaged me.  It destroyed my self-confidence and I had to rebuild it as an adult.  I also had to re-learn how to trust people, communicate with people my age (I still do better with people who are 10+ years older) and how not to let people walk all over me.The funny thing?  As it turns out, I am a very attractive woman.  Not only that, I was a pretty attractive kid with almost no awkward phase (judging from what I can see in the few pictures people managed to snap where I wasn't hiding my face).  Not only that, I am athletic to the point that when people find out that I didn't play team sports on the college level, nonetheless at all growing up, they are shocked.  I even was on a semi-professional level team at point.  Bullying is a horrible thing.  If you are a parent that allows your child to bully others or an adult, especially one working with children, who sees bullying and doesn't put a stop to it, you are an inadequate caregiver, adult and role model.  You are basically sitting by and allowing life long harm to be caused to an innocent child because another child feels so inadequate that they need to put people down in order to feel good about themself.  Bullying causes suicides, self-mutilation, eating disorders and life long mental problems.  It has also turned children into murders when violence has gone too far.  Furthermore, from what I've seen, the kids who feel the need to bully, grow up to lead pretty crappy lives as adults.  By not handling bullying you are failing both the person enduring the bullying and the person doling it out.  Both will suffer into adulthood because you failed to intervene.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Katrina 14 hours ago

Doug: football pep rallies are stupid. And I like football, but there is more to high school than sports. Besides, you can't be a quarterback forever. Students who pursue painting, music, or theatre learn arts that will stick with them forever.I wish parents and schools would do more to emphasize actual learning in school. Kids are so fixated on clothing and who does and does not play a sport that their test scores fall sadly behind the Germans, Chinese, and Japanese.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Ms 13 hours ago

Wow, this hits home for me too. I was never the girl that anyone noticed unless they wanted to pick on me or ask me for help with homework. Most of my bullies were boys. I was really poor, wore stuff from Good Will and everything, very boy-ish but pretty smart and SUPER shy. I guess I was the perfect target.What I hate now is that as an adult is that people assume that I'm some over confident snob who's completely in love with herself and its totally not the case. They make me out to be like the people who used to bully me when I was a kid and I really hate it. I don't judge other and I try to be nice to everyone (unless they give me a reason not to be). This article reminds me of a conversation I had with a guy once. He asked me if (growing up) I was the type of girl who had everyone's attention when I walked in a room and I honestly told him no. He told me he liked the fact that I was honest.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Marry Foreign Women 13 hours ago

Bye bye Carol Bartz!!!   The good ol' girls club at Yahoo is about to go the way of the Dodo bird!!!THANKS Daniel Loeb !!!!!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Isabela eMisa 13 hours ago

I bet those bullies are feeling pretty down in the dumps now, huh?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Oh Mylanta! 12 hours ago

i can think of a whole barrage of names to still call that idiot Obozo...

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 525 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Parenting Cheat_Sheet



The magic age to have a babyHow will your family hold on to every last bit of summer?10 things newly divorced moms should knowHomepages for Homerooms: Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects




Most Popular On Parenting


Celebrities who were bullied as kids Tue Sep 6, 2011 7:51pm PDTSince When Did "You Don't Look Pregnant" Become Offensive? Tue Sep 6, 2011 11:33am PDTChild star fun fact: Blossom still nurses her 3-year-old son. Here's why... Wed Sep 7, 2011 10:12am PDTThis 'surprise' full-term baby actually makes sense Tue Sep 6, 2011 11:53am PDTThe dilemma of donor siblings: 150 brothers and sisters, maybe more... Tue Sep 6, 2011 4:40pm PDT


More Most Popular on Parenting »


Parenting poll




Do you let your kids drink soda?





Yes! It's not that big of a deal.
 

Occasionally. I definitely monitor it.
 

Once in a while at parties or special events.
 

Never! I don't care how old they are.
 

Shhh...they think it is an adults-only beverage.








See Results »










Do you let your kids drink soda?





Yes! It's not that big of a deal.

 
21%


 

Occasionally. I definitely monitor it.

 
29%


 

Once in a while at parties or special events.

 
32%


 

Never! I don't care how old they are.

 
10%


 

Shhh...they think it is an adults-only beverage.

 
8%







« Vote on this question



sponsored by:




Updates Chatter on Shine…





The Figures of Weight Loss
by idealweightloss.com a short while  ago





Weight Loss Tip Using Water To Lose Weight
by effective-weight-loss.com 1 minute ago





How Can I loose 20lbs Weight From Belly?
by Som 5 minutes ago





Is Obesity a Disease?
by health-and-weight-loss-tips.com 7 minutes ago





6 Tricks for Boosting Your Metabolism
by projectweightloss.com 7 minutes ago





What Men Find Attractive In Women – The 6 Qualities
by Anita A 9 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


Movies you can't watch once you're a mom



Demonic babies. Kidnapping. Car accidents.  These seven films put your worst parenting fears on the big screen.




Watch clips here. »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »














Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


President Obama's American Jobs Act: How does it affect us?

How Do You Boost Spending? Make the Lady HappyWho would you put on mute?


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 1

Fashion's Night Out: Top 10 Beauty SpotsPremature Aging Signs You Shouldn't Overlook


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


The diet that science says is twice as likely to work as seeing a doctor

3 Ways to Stop Worrying About Sleep10 Foods That Boost Your Mood


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Strap on your baby and boogie!

Do you ever get tired of your kids climbing all over you? This mama does [video]Kid Sleeps at Another Family's House, Whose Rules Apply?


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


How far would you go to make your man happy?

5 Healthy (and Fun!) Fall Date IdeasGameday 101: A Girl's Guide To Men's Love For Football


More in Love + Sex »



Food


Tempting Apple Desserts

10 Beautiful Recipes From the Barefoot ContessaThe World's Coolest Markets


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Strap on your baby and boogie!

Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!5 Ways to Keep Breakfast Simple


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day
















