Obama Goes Big — and Political — with $450 Billion Stimulus Plan | Daniel Gross - Yahoo! Finance



 Skip to search.      New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Finance              Search   Search Web       
HOMEINVESTINGMarket OverviewMarket StatsStocksMutual FundsETFsBondsOptionsIndustriesCurrenciesEducationCommoditiesNEWSMarketsInvesting IdeasSpecial EditionCompany FinancesProvidersVideoPERSONAL FINANCEBanking & BudgetingCareer & WorkCollege & EducationFamily & HomeInsuranceLoansReal EstateRetirementTaxesLifelong InvestingMY PORTFOLIOSEXCLUSIVESBreakoutThe Daily TickerDaniel GrossFinancially Fit




 
Search for share prices
















Tip : Use comma (,) to separate multiple quotes. Learn more...




Fri, Sep 9, 2011, 7:28 AM EDT - U.S. Markets open in 2 hrs 2 mins




















Obama Goes Big — and Political — with $450 Billion Stimulus PlanBy Daniel GrossPostsWebsiteEmailBy Daniel Gross | Contrary Indicator – 12 hours ago

President Obama is finally laying out his latest plan to boost economic growth.  The particulars of the American Jobs Act are important, and meaningful for an economy laboring under slow growth.
The administration believes the package, worth about $450 billion, is good economics. The centerpiece: extending and expanding the existing payroll tax holiday for another year. Instead of paying 4.2 percent on the first $106,800 of income, Americans will only pay 3.2 percent. (The usual rate is 6.2 percent) There are also tax cuts for business, funds for infrastructure and states, and money to support mortgage refinancing.
But, as a senior administration official described it to me this afternoon, the American jobs Act was also designed to be good politics. And with just 14 months until the 2012 presidential elections, the political calculus is almost as significant as the economic one.
President Obama frequently anticipates Republican criticism of his proposals by bargaining with himself instead of making declarative proposals. In this instance, he's anticipating the criticism — any measure will cost too much and add to the already large deficit! — by pairing the legislation with specific offsets and reforms, like the closing of corporate tax loopholes, and higher taxes on the wealthy. The plan he presents will be deficit neutral. What's more, ten days from now, he'll go to the Congressional deficit supercommittee and present plans on larger long-term fiscal reforms.
Many business groups objected to the payroll tax holiday on the grounds that it benefitted employees and did nothing for struggling employers. This time, Obama is going the extra mile for companies. The American Jobs Act offers a more generous payroll tax holiday for companies than for individuals. Businesses will receive a 50 percent reduction — paying 3.1 percent — on the first $5 million of payroll. (The theory: big businesses have plenty of cash and small businesses can use the help.) In addition, companies that add new positions will be exempt from all payroll taxes for the first year. That's a significant cut. Businesses will also be able to take advantage of accelerated depreciation, and tax credits for hiring veterans and the long-term unemployed.
As for direct spending, Obama will explicitly endorse the creation of an infrastructure bank, and propose substantial funds for surface transportation, school construction and renovation, and the rehabilitation of homes in neighborhoods wracked by foreclosures. Total: $105 billion.
Here's the rub. This all requires legislation, which means it requires the active cooperation of some House Republicans and the permission of Senate Republicans, who frequently filibuster legislation favored by the Senate Democratic majority.
The administration didn't present the plans to Republicans in advance. But since early this spring, the White House and Republicans have been negotiating about budget issues. And the administration feels like it knows which buttons to push. It has made a point of including ideas and proposals that Republicans - -including Republicans in leadership positions — have explicitly supported. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor has spoken in favor of a payroll tax cut for employers, and has been a stickler for offsetting new spending with cuts elsewhere. The administration official referred to the proposed infrastructure bank as the Kerry-Hutchinson infrastructure bank, as in Democratic Senator John Kerry and Texas Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson.

What's more, they have devised policies that influential Republican-friendly groups, like the Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, and the National Federation of Independent Business can get behind. Business lobbyists are likely to aid in the effort to pass new tax cuts for business as well as for infrastructure spending.
(The most controversial measure is likely to be the one that doesn't require legislation. Obama will endorse expanded mortgage refinancing — essentially suggesting that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are now formally owned by the government, make it easier for Americans to refinance their homes, even if they have high loan to value ratios or are underwater.)
These measures are designed to stimulate the economy. But they're also designed to put Congressional Republicans on the spot. Are they interested in moving the economy forward by passing measures that they and their business allies have favored and advocated? Or are they so intent on making President Obama a failure that they will refuse deficit-neutral goodies they've long favored?
The answer isn't a no-brainer. According to administration officials, during the debt-ceiling and budget negotiations, Republican leadership conceded that the dominant faction of the House Republican caucus wasn't interested in measures that would make the president look good by improving the economy. And time and again over the last three years, moderate Republicans have walked away from measures they previously supported — on cap-and-trade, an individual mandate for health insurance, immigration reform — simply because President Obama was for them. The White House doesn't have any greater faith in its Republican interlocutors on the Hill than it did on the spring. But it recognizes that the President has to lay out what he's for and then fight for it.
 Team Obama believes it has put forward a plan that few people on the Hill will be able to oppose in principal. It wants Americans to draw the conclusion that the only reason Republicans would vote the plan down would be a political one. And if the voting public doesn't reach that conclusion on its own, they'll be happy to point it out in the coming months.

How will this play out? Like it usually does. The Senate Democratic majority will embrace it enthusiastically, and the House Democrats will do so with less enthusiasm. Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell will reject it, and virtually all the Senate Republicans will line up behind him in a filibuster threat. The Tea Party crowd in the House will loudly announce its opposition and throw back a non-negotiable, unacceptable alternative. The business groups will shy away from the fight if enough members of the Republican leadership express opposition. As was the case with the debt ceiling, it will come down to the willingness of House Speaker John Boehner and a few Republicans to cut a deal.
Daniel Gross is economics editor at Yahoo! Finance
Email him at grossdaniel11@yahoo.com; follow him on Twitter @grossdm

PaginationPreviousLive-Blogging President Obama’s Jobs Speech





All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        6,831 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













popeye1250
2 hours ago

We only need cancel one program and we could pay for this in 4-5 years!
End Foreign Aid!




 








Henri
4 hours ago

The USA is in dire straits, Canada, Norway, Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland...just to name a few are doing just fine. Wonder why that is? Maybe it's because these people set the needs of the country first instead of their own political agenda and self interest groups...not to mention the anti Obama frenzy that shows complete disrespect for the office of the president. Wake up America before you go down the drain of history due to ignorance and greed....self destruction seems to be the path today, Remember the saying "United we Stand, Divided we Fall"...looks like we're falling off the deep end.




 








JungleBear
6 hours ago

Now this is an interesting statement by republicans

Republican leadership conceded that the dominant faction of the House Republican caucus wasn't interested in measures that would make the president look good by improving the economy. And time and again over the last three years, moderate Republicans have walked away from measures they previously supported — on cap-and-trade, an individual mandate for health insurance, immigration reform — simply because President Obama was for them. 

if this is the tact the republican party is taking then don't expect any relief until at least 2016




 








Richard
6 hours ago

The Republicans do not want to improve life for the American Middle Class.  They only want
to support the super rich and will not pass any measures that are important for the entire
American population.  They simply are against Obama and want to regain control of everything.




 








Onearm
19 minutes ago

It sounds like Obama does not know what to do for this Great  Nation of ours, All I hear from him is words coming from his mouth and not any kind of action to help our Great Nation to get out of this headship we are in.




 








Maria
21 minutes ago

We need to close our borders for a year not let anymore non citizens in and give their jobs to americans. What about unpaid internships and volunteers. They are not counted in the job numbers, and they take away paying jobs but do provide unpaid labor.
Why can't Americans get together and sacrifice to get this situation under control.
We could all go without for a year like in the WW! and II. We can do it.




 








daseymaes
20 minutes ago

Am I the only one that remembers what the stuff shirt said (mitch McConnell) back in 2009? That he would never give his vote  for what ever Obama trys to do. Well you can bet Mitch McConnell wont budge a bit , This old goat should go back to the pasters and let  our country get ahead, 
I wish someone would make goat cheese of Mitch I did not vote for Obama because I felt he was full of gas Hot air if you like that term better. We Americans have had enough of the fighting in Congress, And sick of  fighting in other countrys  to make the rich richer, while our trops  die and our Vets fight here at home for  a decent life & Health care.
I believe it's time to vote all these mongers & thiefs & back stabers out of Washington, We need some one that will not be bought & Look out for this country wellfare. I'm talking  real Jobs real income &  Bring our troops  all of them home, Stop wasting our troops lives & the hard money  we the American people earn doing  work here in Amarica, And most off all  STOP sending our  Jobs  to other countrys.

Let all the elite  go to a private Island far away from America make them stay there  So we can keep our hard earned  money to make America a great place to  live again.




 








Ainsley
23 minutes ago

the leadership in Washington water down there is no substance in it we are under attack by those  who can afford to play the game votres  should stand up and fight for waht they belive in.




 








Ruthann
26 minutes ago

the only way to get our enconmy going and growing is to start producing something right here that sells and makes money but what did obama do???he got in with ge and let them go to china to produce and make them more money for us to borrow and now he wants to spend the borrowed money or things that dont make money and in turn the only thing it goes is long term debt and short term jobs paid for by the goverment.




 








PATRICIA
29 minutes ago

what about peopke that on social security and food stamps grocery went up when will we get a raise when will our food stamps go up\ we need that to




 








Jflorez757
31 minutes ago

Maybe he was working on getting our boys home...




 








thomas k
33 minutes ago

its going to take all of us to get things turned around they need to do something about free trade with china or the companies will go broke again and all the programs will be wasted




 








Cindy
33 minutes ago

Animal Farm by George Orwell




 








DP
34 minutes ago

Lets get some fresh good people to lead. The clintons ,plousie's bidon's Gore's Rommney's are old selfish greedy people.Power hungry,controlling crooked people. Obummer doesn't even have enough class to begin with to be in the same room with them and he needs to leave. He is so slippery and smooth, Satan in the White House. If he is not removed we loose. Cut the head off the snake and it dies. I am done I could go on but if we don't see this it is a waste of time.




 








barbara
34 minutes ago

So, Obama wants to save us, does he?  Who is he trying to kid?  He wants that Presidency again!  After the things he said, the insinuations about our Social Security Program, the Military and other programs that are crucial to our existence, he knows his popularity is at an all time low.  I only hope that when we go to the polls, we will let our intelligence shine through!




 








lorip719
35 minutes ago

People read the US Constitution before you begin blaming Obama or any president for the crisis we are living in right now.  The US CONGRESS is who levies taxes, spends tax dollars, borrows DEBT and determines who gets tax breaks.  It is time for us as Americans to stand together for our country and remove the political barriers of party economics.  This is not a Democratic or Obama "thing" it is American! If Republicans and Tea Party members are for the US first and not their own political gain then this should be a no brainer.  Lets see how this plays out because as an Independent voter it will determine my future vote for years to come.




 








JoanneS
40 minutes ago

Obama's speech was directed at BIG UNION ONLY.  If Obama was for job growth, for the unemployed then why is the NLRB suing Boeing over building a plant in South Carolina which is a NON Union state/Right to work state???  Can any democrat please explain that to the unemployed in South Carolina????? Why did Federal agents raid a business in Tennessee which is another non-union state claiming that they received illegal cherry wood from India that they have been buying from for decades but have not raided similar businesses that have union employees in other states??  Come on Democrat and Obama supporters please explain the reasoning behind this???  Obama's speech was a free campaign speech on the taxpayers dollar, why because if you have notice in his recent campaign speeches the media is no longer panning out to show the previous large crowds he use to get.  His crowds have dwindle and he has 15 months and several days left before November 2012.  Why didn't he have his complete plan ready?? Why does he need another week or two to get it done?  Why did this plan start out before the speech at $300 billion and now has increased to $447 billion?  Who wants to bet that this plan will increase to close to $1 TRILLION in 2 weeks????  The last stimulus did not work it increase unemployment from 7% to 10.2%  Any Rino who votes for this BS plan and you are up for re-election in 2012 please start packing your bags NOW!!!




 








DP
42 minutes ago

Reading some of the comments from others I think we all are on the same page in different in suttle ways. People are just fed up with the Goverment. Why do we wait so long for them to realize what it takes to get our country going agan. I know Politics. Do you think they just came up with this plan by some devine revelation ? again Politics. Get the politicians thinking about this country ,you and I , not their high paying jobs with power they can use to control America and industry. Clear the blackboard start with American concerend leaders who are genuin in thinking of all involved. Obummer is still not an American and don't be deceived again.




 








Oscar Handle
43 minutes ago

I agree, why should we continue foreign aid when our country is in such economic chaos. Let's take care of Americans first.




 








J.Earl
48 minutes ago

Just more of the Obama lies. Cut foreign aid and other give aways and all will be well..JT








   More
                        



 Post a comment
                       	









Get Daniel Gross News Sent to Your Inbox 

Get Updates
Your Email Address





Got a tip? Let us know!
About Daniel GrossDaniel Gross joined Yahoo! Finance in the fall of 2010 as columnist, economics editor, and a co-host of The Daily Ticker. The best-selling author of six books, including Forbes Greatest Business Stories and Dumb Money: How Our Greatest Financial Minds Bankrupted the Nation, Gross has been covering politics, business, and economics for two decades. The longtime “Moneybox” columnist for Slate, he was a staff writer and columnist for Newsweek and a contributor to the “Economic View” column in the New York Times. Follow on Twitter
LATEST TWEETS FROM DANIEL GROSSgrossdmDaniel Gross I'm live blogging the speech with Y! peeps Rachel Hartman and Chris Suellentrop here: http://t.co/sWfFavD12 hours ago from bitlyI spoke w/ administration official on plans, details, and politics of Obama plan. My analysis here: http://t.co/ui9nI6v12 hours ago from bitlyHazards of working at home: spouse currently watching Joe Scarborough singing country song on The View!17 hours ago from webSolving unemployment crisis, one at a time. Yahoo! Finance is hiring http://t.co/p91trAZ18 hours ago from webSingle-handedly solving jobs crisis. RT @danroth I'm looking for a great editor to help with @Linkedin Today. Details: http://t.co/efUm81z21 hours ago from web More tweets »


Subscribe and RSS? [X]How to subscribeRoll over each section to subscribe using  or  feeds.Yahoo! News offers dozens of RSS feeds you can read in My Yahoo! or using third-party RSS news reader software. Click here to find out more about RSS and how you can use it with Yahoo! News.Daniel Gross
Loading... 







Today on Yahoo!1 - 6 of 36prevnext
Fossil may be evolution game-changer
Kate Gosselin's flashy new wheels
Stunning new image of Saturn released
Officials probe 'credible' terror threat
The cars that thieves don't want
Lost 'Indiana Jones' set prank surfaces














On This SiteHOMEINVESTINGNEWSPERSONAL FINANCEMY PORTFOLIOSEXCLUSIVES




Also On Yahoo!AutosFinanceGamesGroupsHealthMapsMoviesMusicomg!ShineShoppingSportsTravelTVAll Yahoo! »


Trending NowKristin ChenowethAli LohanNeil Diamond engagementMichelle LeWeight-loss programsJennifer Ehle65,000 callsJonathan Taylor ThomasLong-term careFlight 93










Copyright 2011 Contrary Indicator



                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
About Our Ads
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for  other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar, Inc.
Yahoo! News Network










