'Contagion' review: Nothing to sneeze at




Article:'Contagion' review: Nothing to sneeze at:/c/a/2011/09/08/DDHB1L0OSL.DTL
Article:'Contagion' review: Nothing to sneeze at:/c/a/2011/09/08/DDHB1L0OSL.DTL










 
 


 














advertisement
|
your ad here







SFGate
Home of the San Francisco Chronicle

Subscribe to the weekend Chronicle



















SFGate

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses
| Advanced









Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Homes
Cars


Close [X]Quick links to the best of SFGate | Still can't find it? see Site Index


News »
Today


Breaking News
Live Views
Traffic
Weather

Sections

Bay Area & State
Business

Chronicle Magazine
Crime
Education
Green
Health & Medicine
Home Guides
Nation
Obituaries
Opinion
Politics
Science
Technology
Weird News
World





Sports »

49ers
Raiders
Giants
Athletics
Warriors
Sharks

More

BayList
Blogs
City Brights
Columnists
Comics
Data Center
Earthquakes
Lottery
Maps
Polls
Reader Views
Small Business
Topics



Features
Food »

Bargain Bites
Inside Scoop
Recipes
Restaurants
Top 100 Restaurants
Wine

Travel »

Hawaii
Mexico
Monterey & Carmel
Reno & Tahoe
SF Guide
Weekend Getaways
Wine Country

Living »

Garden
Green
Home & Design
LGBT
Moms
Outdoors
Pets
Ski & Snow
Style



Entertainment »

Art
Books
Horoscope
Live Music
Local Events
Movie Showtimes
Movies
Puzzles
Theater Reviews
Things To Do
TV & Radio

Classifieds »

Advertise With Us
Cars
Coupons
Real Estate
Buy & Sell
Jobs
Merchandise
Pets
Public Notices
Rentals










Movies
Music & Nightlife
Performance
Art
Events
Books
TV & Radio
Horoscope
Comics
Games
Things To Do







more



















'Contagion' review: Nothing to sneeze at

Mick LaSalle, Chronicle Movie Critic
San Francisco Chronicle
September  9, 2011 04:00 AM
Copyright  San Francisco Chronicle. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Friday, September 9, 2011







Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share


Comments 




 Georgia (default)
 Verdana
 Times New Roman
 Arial



Font | Size: 






















0











Claudette Barius / Warner Bros.
Jude Law (right) plays Alan Krumwiede, a San Francisco blogger who ends up playing a key role in reporting on the crisis in "Contagion."








Images


View Larger Images



Related Content


The trailer for "Contagion."
View
























Contagion
 Drama. Starring Laurence Fishburne, Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow, Marion Cotillard, Kate Winslet, Elliott Gould and Jude Law. Directed by Steven Soderbergh. (PG-13. 105 minutes. At Bay Area theaters.)
Though modern in its style and gloss, Steven Soderbergh's "Contagion" has the feeling - the welcome feeling - of one of those epic disaster movies from the 1970s. Like "The Poseidon Adventure" and "The Towering Inferno," the mere size of the all-star cast suggests a catastrophe too big for one or two actors to handle, even as it promises an attrition rate that other movies can't match. This time all the characters have as much reason to be worried as any red-shirt-wearing anonymous crew member on "Star Trek."
And so in the first scene, Gwyneth Paltrow has the sniffles and a slight cough. She is a wife and mother, on her way back from a business trip in Hong Kong, and she assumes that she just caught a bug. Which she has. A big, big bug. In “Contagion,” the deadly awful-nightmare illness starts off like an irritating cold: mild respiratory symptoms, low fever. Then it advances, after two or three days, into convulsions, seizures, foaming at the mouth … followed by burial or cremation and the reading of the will.
"Contagion" is a film for anyone who enjoys an intelligent thriller, but for illness phobes this movie is a special pleasure in that it presses all the right fear buttons even as it validates a very particular vision of reality. If you’re someone who won’t touch the peanut bowl on the barroom counter and who approaches a public restroom as carefully as others might handle plutonium, then the spectacle of people dipping merrily into peanut bowls and becoming fatally and repulsively ill has a certain terror and fascination.
Plagues have always been with us, but now with air travel it has become possible for an epidemic to spread beyond reach even before the first victim has become ill. Accordingly, "Contagion" is a worldwide story that begins with Paltrow, the movie’s Typhoid Mary, and takes us into boardrooms in Washington and small villages in China. If you see it, note how fluid and effortless it all seems and yet how skillfully the movie juggles multiple characters and situations so that it all comes out in an even flow. There is never a moment when a viewer might think, "Why are they showing me this when I want to see that?" Everything holds together because at all points Soderbergh and writer Scott Z. Burns are telling the larger story — that of the disease — and advancing it through the various characters.
 "Contagion" gives us the personal, with Matt Damon as a dazed and grief-stricken husband, and the political, with Laurence Fishburne as one of the directors of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There is the scientific angle — with Kate Winslet, Jennifer Ehle, Marion Cotillard and Elliott Gould working in various capacities toward prevention and cure — and the sociological, as cities drift into chaos and the garbage piles up. At one point, someone makes a call and gets a recorded message: "To report a death or for the removal of a body, press 1." Yes, it would happen like that.
 Especially imaginative and accurate is the way the film presents the potential role of the Internet, embodied here by Jude Law as a San Francisco blogger who pitches a news story to The San Francisco Chronicle and is rejected for not having enough facts. Undaunted, he turns his blog into a major outlet during the crisis, and the treatment of the character — Law plays him well, as dedicated, messianic, paranoid and yet not always wrong — becomes an arresting element, an acknowledgment of the Internet’s power as well as an argument about the relative merits of professional and amateur journalism.
"Contagion" doesn’t transcend itself. It’s an action thriller, a good one, but it doesn’t take on any additional importance or meaning as it wears on — it’s just a smart, entertaining experience, which is enough. But it might change your life. You may never again be able to touch your face without asking yourself where those hands have been. In fact, yesterday might have been a good day to buy stock in Purell. ﻿
E-mail Mick LaSalle at mlasalle@sfchronicle.com.
This article appeared on page E - 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle








Print
E-mail




del.icio.us

Slashdot



Digg

Fark



Technorati

Newsvine



Reddit

Google Bookmarks



LinkedIn

Twitter



Facebook






Share











0
























Subscribe to the San Francisco Chronicle and receive access to the Chronicle for iPad App and a gift:

Sunday + a $15 gift card
Fri-Sun + a $15 gift card
Mon-Sun + a $25 gift card







'Contagion' review: Nothing to sneeze at
Articles
Contagion RATING: (POLITE APPLAUSE)Drama. Starring Laurence Fishburne, Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow, Marion Cotillard, Kate Winslet, Elliott Gould and Jude Law. Directed by Steven Soderbergh. (PG-13. 105 minutes. At Bay...









Woman charged with Le's murder





Mom defends girl's hooker costume





Where are these 9/11 survivors?





Ben & Jerry's reveals new flavor





Panhandlers turn to intimidation


















Galleries

1-3 of 21
















Ko Olina: Hawaii's magic kingdom...



Miss Universe National Costumes



Spanish accents still flavor the...



S.F. Symphony 100th anniversary gala



GQ Men of the Year Awards



Famous 9/11 faces: Where are they now?



Burning Man 2011: Rites of passage...



My Ride - 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera...



Ski season in 'Lord of the Rings...



Limelight Listing - Michael Bay's...



Modern San Anselmo home with...



Feelin' groovy: Men's fashion in the...



Burning Man alternative: A tour of S...



At Koi Palace, it's mooncake mania



Guadalajara gears up for the Pan...



Venice Film Festival 2011



Renovated Noe Valley contemporary...



The making of one of the finest...



Blessing of the Grapes



2011 VMAs: Red carpet report



Tango in S.F. Bay Area














advertisement
|
your ad here

















Beauty pageant mom defends daughter's hooker costumeJerry Brown's revised jobs plan passes AssemblyNOTES More surgery for Manning - season in doubtYahoo Chairman Roy Bostock May Lose Own Job After Firing BartzSF Giants' roster - who won't be back in 2012?Fossil find an odd mix of ape, humanOutage affects millions in Southwest, Mexico


Ben & Jerry's unveils Schweddy Balls ice creamSupernova to be visible for up to 2 weeksSeemingly drunk Swedish moose found stuck in treeKitchen staff walks out at Castagnola's in S.F.FBI serves search warrants at SolyndraBART protesters arrested - Powell Station closedAggressive S.F. panhandlers, tourist complaints up


Aggressive S.F. panhandlers, tourist complaints upObama to Congress: 'Pass this jobs bill'BART protesters arrested - Powell Station closedKitchen staff walks out at Castagnola's in S.F.FBI serves search warrants at SolyndraFront-runner Rick Perry takes heat at GOP debateEx-classmate charged with murder of Michelle Le











From Our Homepage





'No justice, no peace'
At least 50 protesters force BART to close the Powell Street station for two hours. Photos
 Comments & Replies (0)





Bad feeling in a good way
'Contagion' is like an epic 1970s disaster film. LaSalle.
 Comments & Replies (0)


Trailer |
5 best Soderbergh movies





Symphony's happy 100th
Maestro Michael Tilson Thomas helps open centennial celebration.
 Comments & Replies (0)


Photos: Glam on opening night













































SAN FRANCISCO
3 BR / 3.0 BA$250,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
2 BR / 2.1 BA$110,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
3 BR / 3.0 BA$2,200,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
2 BR / 1.1 BA$490,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
1 BR / 1.0 BA$330,000.00


POINT RICHMOND
3 BR / 2.0 BA$319,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
2 BR / 2.0 BA$1,215,000.00


OAKLAND
3 BR / 2.0 BA$599,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
3 BR / 1.0 BA$739,000.00


SAN FRANCISCO
3 BR / 2.0 BA$549,000.00
































Real Estate



Spacious Alameda home with secluded backyard
This 1939 house is on a dead-end street with a big, secluded yard. Asking $849K.

Michael Bay's Santa Monica estate
The homes at Burning Man
What you can buy in SF for $580,000



Search Real Estate »












Cars



Mercedes' profit envy
Mercedes-Benz plans to expand its lineup of high-end luxury cars and sport-utility vehicles in an effort to surpass BMW's record profits.

Car batteries jump-start mileage
My Ride: 1987 Porsche 911 Carrera Cabriolet
 Photo: Share pics of your car



Search Cars »
















Browse ads |
                Place an ad »














[Return to top]

Home
News
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Food
Living
Travel
Buy & Sell
Find Bay Area Jobs
Real Estate
Cars
Site Index



Advertising Services:

Advertise with us
Place a Classified
About Our Ads
Public Notices
Local Businesses: Business Directory



Reader Services:

Home Delivery
Subscribers
iPad
E-Edition
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Newsletters
Feedback
Buy Photos
FAQ
Corrections
Get Us



Company Info:

Contact Us
Hearst Corp.
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Work for Us
Chronicle in Education
Events & Promotions
Submissions








© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.




Be the first to share your thoughts on this story.
Share your thoughts on this story.
 - be the first to share your thoughts on this question.
 - Sorry, comments are closed for this story.

'Contagion' review: Nothing to sneeze at
Articles
Contagion RATING: (POLITE APPLAUSE)Drama. Starring Laurence Fishburne, Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow, Marion Cotillard, Kate Winslet, Elliott Gould and Jude Law. Directed by Steven Soderbergh. (PG-13. 105 minutes. At Bay...




























