CB AutoBlog - Automated Blogging System









					       A simple, 5-minutes installation and CB Autoblog is ready to go!
       Posts the newest and best CB products daily - sometimes hours or days before other tracking and product websites!
       Easy to manage WordPress settings
       Extensions to embed rich media content automatically - relevant images, videos and PPC ads
       Automatically tags, categorizes, and subcategorizes posts for SEO
       Pulls targeted, relevant content from multiple quality sources
       This will not create another Spam blog!
       Configure your settings once, and walk away!

 




					       CB Autoblog Multi User comes with everything below, and setup and installation license for unlimited websites!



Included:
CB Autoblog Software
Technical Support
Minor Version Updates
Access to Customer Forums
Installation Training Videos
Special Customer Only Bonuses
CB Autoblog Installation Guide
Free WP Plugin suite for optimizing your Blog
16+ Blog Banner Headers to easily customize your blog
Additional Tips and Tricks to Monetize your Blog
Additional Free graphics, buttons and icons for your blog


                    CB Autoblog is available by instant digital download.
                    If you have any questions, please contact us.
                    


Purchase CB Autoblog Mutli User Upgrade

Only $47
CB Autoblog is not like any autoblog software you've seen before - CB Autoblog creates targeted, relevant and specific posts daily based around the newest ClickBank products. This is not just another spam blog! CB Autoblog hones in on keywords to locate relevant products in the Click bank market place and also adds content like videos, images and additional advertising media. CB Autoblog will not create spam blog postings with thousands of unreadable posts.


ClickBank is a registered trademark of Keynetics Inc., a Delaware corporation.
cbautoblog.com  is not affiliated with Keynetics Inc. in any way, nor does Keynetics
Inc. sponsor or approve any cbautoblog.com product. Keynetics Inc. expresses no
opinion as to the correctness of any of the statements made by cbautoblog.com in the
materials on this Web page.

This site and the products and services offered on this site are not associated,
affiliated, endorsed, or sponsored by WordPress, nor have they been reviewed tested or
certified by WordPress.

Note: CB AutoBlog version 1.0 requires the latest version of WordPress (WP 3.0+) and the latest PHP libraries (PHP 5.0+) for all the features to work correctly, and we recommend using a new account to host all your CB Autoblog websites - See more details in the CB Autoblog Installation Guide.






Home | 
					Pitch | 
					Terms of Use | 
					Privacy Policy | 
					Earnings Disclaimer | 
                    Affiliates | 
					Contact



