FEMA: FEMA Public Assistance Now Available for Bastrop County, Texas

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






FEMA Public Assistance Now Available for Bastrop County, Texas 

Release Date: September 22, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-014

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- Federal disaster aid in the form of Direct Federal Assistance and Public Assistance has been approved in Bastrop County as a result of the recent wildfires that left a path of destruction through the county, the Texas Division of Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) said Thursday.
Under a new amendment to the Sept. 9 presidential disaster declaration, eligible applicants from the state and local governments, and certain nonprofit organizations in Bastrop County can now apply for FEMA reimbursements under the Public Assistance program.
This program helps reimburse applicants for the cost of removing disaster-related debris from public rights of way, and for measures taken by state and local emergency responders to protect lives and property before, during and after the disaster. The Public Assistance program also helps defray the cost of repairing roads, public buildings, utilities, schools and other public infrastructure damaged or destroyed as a result of the wildfires.
Public Assistance dollars get to Texas communities through a partnership of cost sharing between applicants and the federal government. FEMA picks up 75 percent of the eligible cost of eligible projects and the remainder comes from non-federal sources, such as state and/or local funding.
The amendment also covers any assistance provided in Bastrop through a mission assignment to another federal agency and makes FEMA's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program available statewide.
For more information about wildfire disaster recovery, Texans can follow FEMA tweets at www.twitter.com/femaregion6. Other online resources are blog.fema.gov, www.facebook.com/fema and www.youtube.com/fema.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Thursday, 22-Sep-2011 11:19:06




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











