Asia's Gay-Friendliest Nation?
















 
































HuffPost's QuickRead...




Loading...

 










HuffPost's QuickRead...
















Loading...

 





















	EDITION: U.S.	

CA Canada
		

US United States
		

UK United Kingdom
		





Middle East ProtestsBrazilLibyaLatin America


More


Log in














|


Sign Out








  


    September 8, 2011    




 



 










Like



27K








 



















This is the print preview: Back to normal view »










																				Asia's Gay-Friendliest Nation?
									




			A supporter of Filipino gays and lesbians movement lays on the ground a giant rainbow-colored banner during a protest at the University of the Philippines campus at suburban Quezon city, northeast of Manila, Philippines, Tuesday, June 28, 2011 in support of the signing of the same-sex marriage law in New York. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)
			





																		First Posted: 9/7/11 11:12 AM ET Updated: 9/7/11 11:12 AM ET									
									






React





Important
Fascinating
Typical
Scary
Outrageous
Amazing
Infuriating
Beautiful




Follow






 

														Lgbt
													

											
										, 																							
 

														Philippines
													

											
										, 											
													
														Filipino Lgbt
													
											
										, 											
													
														Gay Friendly Nation
													
											
										, 											
													
														Philippines Catholic
													
											
										, 											
													
														Philippines Gay
													
											
										, 											
													
														Philippines Homosexuality
													
											
										, 											
													
														Philippines Lgbt
													
											
										, 											
													
														Ricky Reyes
													
											
										,
									
 World News












 
By Doug Hendrie, The Diplomat 
‘I sometimes wish I was gay,’ says Mark, my taxi driver, risking a quick glance as he navigates one of Manila’s extraordinary traffic tangles. ‘Gays are very hard workers. They do well in business, in school. They are more successful. Often, they are the breadwinners for an entire family.’ He shrugs a little. ‘I admire them, actually. They—what is the word for doing very well? Excel?’ Yes, I say. He smiles. ‘Yes, they excel.’
My taxi driver—a recent graduate who can’t find work in his field—is right. Gays and lesbians in Asia’s largest Christian country are reaching new heights. The openly gay Boy Abunda is the nation’s top talk show host, with four programmes to his name. Vice Ganda is a flamboyant drag queen by day, interviewing celebrities with snappy flourishes for pop culture shows. Business tycoon Ricky Reyes—Mother Ricky, as he’s known—started as a cleaner in a hairdressing salon. Decades later, he owns dozens of his own name-brand salons. With transgender woman and English professor Bemz Benedito at its helm, the world’s only dedicated gay political party, Ladlad—‘coming out’ in Tagalog—has set its sights on three seats in Congress at the next election. Even the near-universal challenge for gays—coming out publically—can be less difficult than in Western countries. As Andrew De Real, owner of prominent Manila gay club The Library says, gays are more accepted because many end up supporting their families financially. ‘Because most gays don’t have children, they become responsible for their family, their siblings, their nieces and nephews,’ he says.
In the absence of a strong welfare state, the Filipino family is the bulwark against poverty in a developing nation with a population heading towards 100 million. As a result, Filipinos have developed a flexible response to sexuality. Cultural critic Lilia Quindoza Santiago argues that Filipino culture has a more fluid concept of gender because the Tagalog word for ‘gender’ means ‘genus’ or ‘kind,’ rather than the binary implied in English. It’s increasingly common for gay men and women to marry heterosexually, preserving the all-important Roman Catholic nuclear family, and seek love outside of marriage.
The problem for many gays comes later, as they approach retirement childless. One novel solution is the Home for Golden Gays, a gay and lesbian retirement home in Pasay City, part of greater Manila, set up by JJ, a former celebrity columnist, prominent gay, and father of two children. Like many other gay men, JJ married young and had children, to keep up with societal pressures. But in the 1970s, he began speaking out, using the hitherto secret gay dialect of swardspeak in his columns and TV shows. ‘In those days, there was a lot of secrecy amongst gays, so they made use of the gay language, like a secret code,’ JJ says. ‘But the culture has changed and the gay world is open to everyone. Now everyone knows the gay language.’
But as JJ aged, he saw many gays struggling to survive in their twilight years. The solution? A retirement home where 30 elderly gays and lesbians live out their remaining years in friendship. One elegant resident, Mother Leonie, is 80-years-old, but her cheekbones are still high. Biologically male, she worked for most of her life as a female prostitute, specialising in fooling US sailors from the former navy base in Subic Bay, to the north of Manila. ‘I used to look like Sophia Lauren,’ she says proudly. ‘That's why I was the number one prostitute.’ After a lifetime of sex work, she now lives amongst friends she has known for decades.
Meanwhile, gays and lesbians have found a new level of visibility in Filipino culture through an unusual outlet: comedy. Many comedians started out performing at The Library and then found themselves on TV. Filipino name brands like Vice Ganda and Anton Diva all tested out their brand of humour on De Real’s stage before taking their openly gay comedy to the small screen. De Real estimates around 80 percent of all successful comedians are gay. ‘There used to be many gay bashings in the 1980s, and everyone was in the closet,’ he says. ‘But now there are way less, because people have seen how beautiful the hearts of the Filipino gays are. We are everywhere now. We are in television, fashion, business—everywhere.’
Prominent movie director Joey Javier Reyes says coming out can produce two reactions: ‘Your parents will feel it’s either a curse or a blessing. It can be a blessing because there will be a child to look after the parents. So in this country, we are not accepted, but we are tolerated.’
Ladlad chairperson Benedito acknowledges that a greater degree of passive tolerance exists in the Philippines than elsewhere in Asia. ‘The problem is that tolerance and leniency doesn’t always equate to opportunity and equal protection before the law,’ she says. ‘That’s why we are pushing for acceptance. We are not asking our members to come out before they are ready. They can stay in the closet. But we want them to help.’ Making inroads into the political process takes time, but the first hurdle was overcome when the fledgling gay party defeated a court challenge from Christians and southern Muslim groups over their ‘immorality.’
Lesbian activist Ging Cristobal puts it plainly: ‘Tolerance is high in the Philippines as long as you conform to the stereotypes. As long as you are funny, as long as you don't rock the boat and ask for your rights, it’s okay to be gay and lesbian here.’ What that means in practice is not doing anything to shame your family, says Cristobal. ‘To avoid family shame, you regulate your own sexuality. You don’t come out.’
More than 85 percent of Filipinos are Catholic, with most of the rest following hard-line Christian sects or Islam. The political power of the Catholic Church has kept divorce, abortion, and legal rights for gays at bay. The faith shows little sign of flagging here. Shrines to the Virgin Mary dot cities, with crucifixes having been rubbed bare by the touch of thousands of petitioners. The nuclear family remains largely intact.
Church family and life spokesman Monsignor Pepe says the church accepts gays, but calls on them not to sin. ‘We accept them as our fellow Filipinos, we accept and cherish them,’ he says. But Pepe is adamant that gay marriage must not be allowed. ‘Gay men should marry a woman,’ he says. ‘We have a lot of gay people here with the opposite sex. Marriage must be between the opposites. Otherwise it isn’t marriage at all.’ Many gay men have followed his advice in part—acting straight, marrying, having children, and going to Catholic mass. But in their own time, they don’t hide their attraction to men.
One of the major issues for closeted gays is maintaining their faith at a time when the Catholic Church is mounting a campaign against all modern ills, under the acronym of DEATH: divorce, euthanasia, abortion, total population control, and homosexual lifestyles. Across the country, priests deliver sermon after sermon against such threats as Benigno Aquino’s plan to pass a controversial reproductive health bill permitting the state to distribute contraceptive devices. Orthodox Catholics and clergy are outraged over a series of mass gay weddings organized in July by the Quezon City branch of the Metropolitan Community Church, a gay splinter church from the United States.
The weddings have no legal weight, but have created a furore amongst Catholics—and gays and lesbians who believe any move toward gay marriage is premature. Reyes, the founder of the eponymous chain of high-end hair salons, largely staffed by bakla (effeminate gay) men, says gays should leave marriage to heterosexuals. ‘I get mad at gays pursuing things that are impossible. My god, give it to the men and women. If you love somebody, live with them. Living with and understanding someone is better than marriage.’
Those struggling are people like Delos, involved in Living Waters, a Catholic-based group aimed at turning gays into heterosexuals. For Delos, a lean, intense man with an almost imperceptible cleft lip, the process is agonising. ‘I myself suffered from homosexual addiction,’ he says. ‘The pain of being rejected by all the men in my life—my father, my friends—made me seek out the relief of orgasm. But it would only work for a little while.’ From sleeping with a new man every week, Delos says he’s cut down to one encounter a year. ‘Recently, the Lord showed me a vision of me having sex with a woman,’ he says, laughing. ‘The funny thing is that I would normally be repulsed. But I was enjoying it.’
Popular Manila blogger Migs doesn’t want his full name used, as his family still believe he is heterosexual. For five years, Migs lived in the strict monastery-like conditions of an Opus Dei compound in Manila, battling to stave off his attraction to men. ‘I met a woman who was almost perfect for me,’ he says earnestly. ‘But I was not attracted sexually to her. I told myself—either I'll marry her or make a decision to explore the other side of me. Soon afterwards, I found myself a boyfriend and I never looked back.’

Doug Hendrie is an Australian freelance writer. His work has appeared in The Age, The Australian and The Sydney Morning Herald, among other publications.

All rights reserved ©The Diplomat
Read the original story here 






  











PHOTO GALLERIES













			            	9/11 World Events 			            






			            	Russian Plane Crash			            






			            	Brazil's Girl Power			            






			            	Peru Climate Change 			            





















FOLLOW US

















































Connect with your friends


Check out stories you might like,  and see what your friends are sharing!












Loading twitter module...










Most Popular on HuffPost



wslVMyzErO47ERvCjxdc21xmYraJu%2Bg67H5vsoOtkWImZVwjCPoQkdGYAQ8I9Q5JRfNC4vDhE2eAgfMAgZYLd%2BgXbCRz%2Bb0k
ttPk2g%2FN644fypsrP6oxRiZgYwrHVW9Np7D5dRhe%2FCEtlNCnlLH%2FEFfzC%2B5Tvdu6Cu2KAT8yyRbopE0yBPSApmxRYIyRxz%2Bz



1 of 2













PHOTOS: Evan Rachel Wood Beauty Evolution






Like



362













PHOTOS: Pippa Middleton's Year Of Style






Like



250













Kate Gosselin's Worried About Life After 'Kate Plus 8'






Like



546













Moviefone Blog: The Sexiest Woman of the Summer Is ... Mila Kunis






Like



1K













Shelterpop: How to Get Rid of Roaches: Testing 8 Odd Ways






Like



686













Story Template For Every iPhone 5 Release Rumor Ever






Like



546













PHOTOS: The World's Most Secluded Destinations






Like



1K













AOL Music Blog: Did Beyonce Fake Her Baby Bump?!






Like



354













AOL Music Blog: YouTube Video Compiles Every 'Baby' and 'Crazy' Britney Spears Has Uttered






Like



137















Don't Miss HuffPost Bloggers



1 of 5















Jared Bernstein
Romney’s Jobs Plan: Punts Short, Goes Long on Supply-Side Tax Cuts and Fiscal Austerity













Al Gore
Obama’s EPA: Confronting Disappointment













Michael Vlahos
Did We Lose the War?













Bernard-Henri Lévy
September 11th, Ten Years Later













Biz Stone
Introducing The Biz and Livia Stone Foundation













Donna Karan
A Woman’s Greatest Strength













Susan Blumenthal, M.D.
Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs): The Costs of Omission from the MDGs Results in a September UN Summit













Klaus Schwab
Remembering Tragedy and Human Solidarity













Dean Baker
Getting Those Republican Attacks Right













Robert Reich
Tonight’s Republican Debate: The 19th Century or the Stone Age?



 


















Schweddy Balls: Ben & Jerry's Newest Vermont Export
 








Wednesday Words: The Language of 9/11, Adult Domains and More
 








Quote: Madonna Has No Comment on Lady Gaga's 'Obsession' With Her
 





Time - World


















Russian plane crash highlights air travel safety issues
 








Afghanistan journalist's sojourn in 'strange paradise'
 








India bombing kills 11 outside New Delhi courthouse
 





More World News at latimes.com







TOP VIDEO PICKS


1 of 10












Raw Video: Russian Crash Kills Top Hockey Stars














Heavy Gunfire in Central, North Syria














Home video shows Gaddafi's private side







 















MOST DISCUSSED RIGHT NOW


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8a43pip0bdKP
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgKQA9zRBn5c9



1 of 2













Israel Increasingly Isolated Ahead Of U.N. Vote On Palestinian Statehood












Bomb Explodes Outside Indian Court





 





HOT ON FACEBOOK


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8TKPvBq8xPkmgYINREC4w8w%3D
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgPTAYkCdRanfpr%2BnvSQA9QM%3D
jpeKJKgSs0bJPlRX0pV4Fss35VaaM%2Fhsd5ArrOAf1yA%3D
It%2F5vvtExuH5QR4AUtqlVw%3D%3D



1 of 3













And The Coolest Nationality In The World Is...






Like



2K
















PHOTOS: Plane Crash Kills Dozens






Recommend



570









 








HUFFPOST'S BIG NEWS PAGES











Models to Watch: New York Fashion Week Predictions



Models








One In Three High Street Shops Empty In Recession-Hit Towns



Economy








John Galliano: Shamed Designer Faces Paris Verdict Over Rant



Designers









Presidential Debate: Republican Candidates Face Off In California (FULL TEXT, VIDEO)



GOP








Libya: Gaddafi Offers Defiance In Call To Syrian TV



Libya








Rick Perry, Mitt Romney Locked In Cage Match On Social Security Following California Debate



Social Security









Obama Honors NASCAR: Jimmie Johnson, Jeff Gordon And Other Drivers At White House



Motorsports








Archbishop seeking Mugabe meeting



Zimbabwe








Grace Jones at Studio 54, 1978: A Look Back



Culture




more big news pages »
			





 

































FRONT PAGE


UK
U.S.
CANADA




POLITICS


POLITICS
HUFFPOST HILL
2012 ELECTIONS


GREEN
POLLSTER
SPECULATRON




BUSINESS


DAILYFINANCE
SMALL BUSINESS
AUTOBLOG


REAL ESTATE
JOBS
THE WATCHDOG




ENTERTAINMENT


CELEBRITY
ENTERTAINMENT
MUSIC


MOVIES
TV
GAMES.COM




TECH


HUFFPOST TECH
ENGADGET
APPLE BLOG


TECHCRUNCH
JOYSTIQ
TRANSLOGIC




MEDIA


LIFE & STYLE


STYLE NEWS
FOOD
DIVORCE
TRAVEL
IMPACT


STYLELIST
RECIPES
RELIGION
GREEN
HOME/DIY




CULTURE


ARTS
PARENTS
TRAVEL
COLLEGE


RELIGION
IMPACT
BOOKS
EDUCATION




COMEDY


URLESQUE




HEALTHY LIVING


BODY
SPIRIT


MIND
HEALTH NEWS




WOMEN


HEALTHY LIVING
PARENTS




LOCAL


NEW YORK
SAN FRANCISCO
DENVER
PATCH


CHICAGO
LOS ANGELES
TRAVEL
MAPQUEST




MORE


BLACKVOICES
SPORTS
WORLD
EDUCATION


LATINOVOICES
COLLEGE
CRIME
WEIRD NEWS











WORLD 






Advertise | 

Make HuffPost your Home Page | 
RSS | 
Careers | 
FAQ


User Agreement | 
Privacy | 
Comment Policy | 
About Us | 
Contact Us


Copyright © 2011 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. | 
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.







 



























HuffPost Lightbox

















