Fernando Ferrer Was Close To Becoming New York's First Latino Mayor Before 9/11
















 
































HuffPost's QuickRead...




Loading...

 










HuffPost's QuickRead...
















Loading...

 





















	EDITION: U.S.	

CA Canada
		

US United States
		

UK United Kingdom
		





CulturaLatino Politics


More


Log in














|


Sign Out








  


    September 8, 2011    




 



 










Like



524








 



















This is the print preview: Back to normal view »










																				Fernando Ferrer Was Close To Becoming New York's First Latino Mayor Before 9/11
									




			The Rev. Al Sharpton, left, and democratic mayoral candidate Fernando Ferrer, right, walk along Brooklyn's Fulton Street following a news conference on the steps of Borough Hall in the Brooklyn borough of New York Monday, Aug. 27, 2001, at which Sharpton announced his support for Ferrer in the upcoming mayor's race. Former Manhattan Borough President and one-time mayoral candidate Ruth Messinger walks at far right and Bronx Democratic Party Chairman Roberto Ramirez walks behind Ferrer wearing a 
			





																		First Posted: 9/6/11 01:27 PM ET Updated: 9/7/11 09:23 AM ET									
									






React





Amazing
Inspiring
Funny
Scary
Hot
Crazy
Important
Weird




Follow






 

														9/11
													

											
										, 																							
 

														Michael Bloomberg
													

											
										, 																							
 

														Bronx
													

											
										, 																							
 

														Decade-After-911---Lives-Affected
													

											
										, 																							
 

														September 11
													

											
										, 																							
 

														September 11 Anniversary
													

											
										, 																							
 

														Video
													

											
										, 											
													
														Fernando Ferrer
													
											
										,
									
 Latino Voices News












Luvaldina Feliz woke up early on September 11, 2001 and began her daily routine: breakfast with her husband at their Bronx apartment and then on to Public School 11, where she worked as a volunteer.
But that day was different. She left a little earlier than usual because it was primary day. Feliz expected to join thousands of voters in catapulting the first Hispanic into the mayoralty.
The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center took place the same day as the city’s primary election to determine who would be the Democratic candidate for mayor, and the battle centered between former Public Advocate Mark Green and then Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, a Puerto Rican.
"I voted for Ferrer because as borough president, he worked hard to solve problems in our communities," Feliz said. "Ferrer was going to be an excellent mayor."
Feliz's dream was never fulfilled. The attacks changed the course of that campaign and the fate of the city. Instead of Ferrer—or any Democratic mayor—the aftermath of 9/11 set the stage for a billionaire with little political experience, Michael Bloomberg.
Before Sept. 11, Ferrer said his campaign was full of energy and there was great enthusiasm among voters eager to elect the first Latino mayor.
"After 9/11, everything changed, not just in New York politics but at the national level. I think I would have won on that day, but they postponed the election, leaving just 16 days to carry out another campaign, with totally different issues," Ferrer recalled.
Green won the rescheduled primary and was favored to defeat Michael Bloomberg, the Republican Party candidate, in the general election. However, a succession of errors and unfortunate decisions would cost Green his bid for City Hall.
According to some political analysts, the most costly mistake occurred when, in the days before the Democratic primary against Ferrer, one of Green’s supporters distributed a flyer featuring a cartoon of Ferrer with civil rights activist Al Sharpton that many considered racist (the picture showed Ferrer kissing Sharpton on his behind).
Although Green denied playing any role in the distribution of this cartoon, the scandal cost him the support of both African-American and Latino communities. Sharpton publicly endorsed Bloomberg. Green’s Democratic base also began to crumble when, in the days following 9/11, he supported the proposal of then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a Republican, to extend his term by three months.
Ferrer recalled that, on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, he rose early to get to the polls by 7 a.m., at a school near his home on 227th Street in the Bronx. Afterwards, he greeted voters near several more polling sites.  
"At about 8:45 a.m., I got a call from the wife of my assistant, that there had been an ‘accident’ at the Twin Towers. ‘A fire,' she said. Still, no one spoke of a plane," he said.
As they crossed the Triborough Bridge (now renamed for Robert F. Kennedy,) Ferrer told his driver that he wanted to stop by a school in El Barrio, to hear the news. He then learned that another plane had exploded into the second tower, and “I knew immediately that it was not an accident," he said.
Ferrer went to his office on the third floor of the Bronx Courthouse. There, he maintained contact with the police, hospitals and various agencies of the city until 11 a.m., when the police called to evacuate the building because all government buildings were deemed potential targets for further attacks.
"I went with my assistants to the Democratic Party office in the East Bronx, to be in communication with the City and also with my family," Ferrer said. "My wife was the principal of a Bronx public school at the time, P.S. 46, and my daughter worked for Citibank in Lower Manhattan."
Soon after the attacks, a debate emerged over Giuliani extending his term. Unlike Green and Bloomberg, Ferrer did not back that proposal. The mayoral contender noted that after 9/11, the key campaign issues changed completely, from the focus on affordable housing and health care to, instead, national security.
"There was a lot of fear in those days, and I think that influenced the vote. [The focus of] both local and national agendas became national security and the war on terrorism. These are important issues, but so are poverty, public education, employment and health, which are the foundations of a city,” Ferrer asserted.
Ferrer, who was Bronx borough president for 14 years (1987-2001) and the Democratic candidate for mayor in 2005, is currently co-chair of the communications firm Fleishman-Hillard Government Relations. He also serves on the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA).
He makes clear that he has retired from politics. Yet he still endorses candidates for elected office. Ferrer believes that there are other Hispanics who could succeed as mayor, citing as examples the current Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. and State Senators Jose Peralta, Joseph M. Serrano and Adriano Espaillat.
'One makes mistakes'
Although Mark Green has admitted making mistakes during the 2001 campaign when he lost the mayoral election against Bloomberg, he maintains that it was not because of the cartoon, but several issues, including the "money factor."
"You make mistakes in a political campaign, but those tactical errors are dwarfs compared to the big picture," Green said. "The two factors that had a tremendous impact on the elections were first, the historic attacks on primary day—which affected the general psyche and politics—and second, the most money ever spent by a candidate during an election campaign in the history of this city," he said.
Bloomberg spent $74 million in the city election—more money per voter than is spent by candidates in the national presidential election, Green noted.
"I tried, but lost by two percentage points to Bloomberg, who was supported by Governor Pataki, Mayor Giuliani and the Rev. Al Sharpton,” Green said. “Of course now we know he is very capable," he added, referring to the mayor.
When asked about his role, if any, in relation to the cartoon, Green maintained: "Today, we know that some idiot supporter of mine spread that caricature in Brooklyn," reiterating that he had no knowledge then of the distribution or of those who had.
Green recalled that the morning of 9/11, he woke up feeling very optimistic because he knew that the candidate who won the Democratic primary would likely become the next mayor of the city.
"My son Jonah, who is a cinematographer, was filming it all for a school project, and in one of the takes, you can see my wife and I coming out of our apartment. There at the bottom of the video is the date: September 11, 7:44 a.m.," Green said. "Anyone who views this now can see that was the last hour before the city, the campaign and the world changed.”
Green went to vote at the Richard Green High School, on East 88th Street. Then, along with members of his staff, he rode in his car to P.S. 6, on Sixth Avenue and 11th Street, a half mile from the Twin Towers. He recalled that he welcomed parents who had brought their children to their first day of school and encouraged them to vote.
At 8:46 a.m., a friend of Green’s, after looking southward at the city, said, "Something's wrong." It was just moments after the first plane struck the North Tower.
"I looked and just stood there, confused," said Green, who explained that the way he reacted was something he had never experienced. When someone announced that a plane had crashed into the tower ‘by accident’, Green replied that this was no accident, because the sky that day was clear enough.
Green revealed that in the next five minutes he was torn between going to the World Trade Center, in his capacity as the Public Advocate, and staying away because it might be seen as a political act. He ultimately kept his distance, considering that everything he might do that day would be considered ‘political.’
"We stopped the campaign," Green said, "and two hours later, Gov. George Pataki officially postponed the elections.”
Green revealed that he has never spoken personally about 9/11, because talking about how it affected his family or a political campaign "sounds small" compared to everything that happened through the attacks.
"They changed the world, engaging a war on terrorism at the highest levels. People died, and our security, our civil rights and our laws were impacted," he said.
Green agrees with his then rival Ferrer that 9/11 changed the local and national discourse. "It changed the issues on which we used to focus: employment, environment, housing ... We’d been attacked by foreign enemies, and the questions now became: How will the city of New York respond, how are we going to recover?”
Today, the former mayoral candidate is retired from active politics, dedicating his time to writing and hosting the national radio program Both Sides Now, with Arianna Huffington and Mary Matalin.
As they look back at the political landscape, analysts like Carlos Vargas-Ramos, a researcher at the Center for Puerto Rican Studies in New York, said that Ferrer and Green are right in their assessment of the decisive effect Sept. 11 had on the elections.
"From the theme of the 1990’s economic boom, which had not been distributed equitably across the city, the focus changed to talk of national security, and who had the skills to rebuild and protect the city,” Vargas-Ramos said.
Luis Miranda, an expert on Latino politics with the MirRam Group and who served as an adviser to Ferrer in 2001, said the campaign focused on this inequity. "The slogan was 'The Other New York' and the other New York includes everyone: those who aren’t rich, Latinos, African-Americans, the working class."
Miranda noted that his candidate had significant support within the African American community, including from Rev. Sharpton and Congressman Charles Rangel, and this gave his campaign a critical boost. “Had the attack had not occurred on Sept. 11, 2001, Fernando Ferrer would have become the first Hispanic mayor New York," Miranda said.
Vargas-Ramos said Sept. 11 triggered an opening for a political outsider like Bloomberg. “For many voters, there was no Democrat —be it Ferrer or someone else— who was perceived as up to the task," the analyst said. "And suddenly Bloomberg emerges, a corporate titan who had these skills. That was what gave him the advantage, what it took for him to become mayor.”
This article is part of a 9/11 Anniversary series from El Diario, to read more, please click here. 

WATCH RELATED (Fernando Ferrer Segment Starts at 43:00):





  











PHOTO GALLERIES













			            	Latina Magazine Celebrates 15 Years			            





















FOLLOW US

















































Connect with your friends


Check out stories you might like,  and see what your friends are sharing!












Loading twitter module...










Most Popular on HuffPost



wslVMyzErO47ERvCjxdc21xmYraJu%2Bg67H5vsoOtkWImZVwjCPoQkdGYAQ8I9Q5JRfNC4vDhE2eAgfMAgZYLd%2BgXbCRz%2Bb0k
ttPk2g%2FN644fypsrP6oxRiZgYwrHVW9Np7D5dRhe%2FCEtlNCnlLH%2FEFfzC%2B5Tvdu6Cu2KAT8yyRbopE0yBPSApj3uiOEm3rCZ



1 of 2













PHOTOS: Evan Rachel Wood Beauty Evolution






Like



359













PHOTOS: Pippa Middleton's Year Of Style






Like



250













Kate Gosselin's Worried About Life After 'Kate Plus 8'






Like



539













Moviefone Blog: The Sexiest Woman of the Summer Is ... Mila Kunis






Like



1K













Shelterpop: How to Get Rid of Roaches: Testing 8 Odd Ways






Like



494













Story Template For Every iPhone 5 Release Rumor Ever






Like



546













PHOTOS: The World's Most Secluded Destinations






Like



1K













AOL Music Blog: Did Beyonce Fake Her Baby Bump?!






Like



353













AOL Music Blog: YouTube Video Compiles Every 'Baby' and 'Crazy' Britney Spears Has Uttered






Like



109















Don't Miss HuffPost Bloggers



1 of 5















Jared Bernstein
Romney’s Jobs Plan: Punts Short, Goes Long on Supply-Side Tax Cuts and Fiscal Austerity













Al Gore
Obama’s EPA: Confronting Disappointment













Michael Vlahos
Did We Lose the War?













Bernard-Henri Lévy
September 11th, Ten Years Later













Biz Stone
Introducing The Biz and Livia Stone Foundation













Donna Karan
A Woman’s Greatest Strength













Susan Blumenthal, M.D.
Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs): The Costs of Omission from the MDGs Results in a September UN Summit













Klaus Schwab
Remembering Tragedy and Human Solidarity













Dean Baker
Getting Those Republican Attacks Right













Robert Reich
Tonight’s Republican Debate: The 19th Century or the Stone Age?



 


















HOT ON FACEBOOK


2RgnQXLokElFimSGDV8i8TKPvBq8xPkmgYINREC4w8w%3D
iJKomeBLqmM3QvAVQ0trgPTAYkCdRanfpr%2BnvSQA9QM%3D
jpeKJKgSs0bJPlRX0pV4Fss35VaaM%2Fhsd5ArrOAf1yA%3D



1 of 3













Why We Need a Deeper Dialogue on Black-and-Brown Relations






Like



8K
















Compassion In The Ranks: U.S. Border Patrol Officers' Emotional Paradox






Like



67









 








HUFFPOST'S BIG NEWS PAGES











Models to Watch: New York Fashion Week Predictions



Models








Rick Perry, Mitt Romney Locked In Cage Match On Social Security Following California Debate



Video








Obama Honors NASCAR: Jimmie Johnson, Jeff Gordon And Other Drivers At White House



Motorsports









Jon Huntsman On Afghanistan: We've Got To Bring Our Troops Home



GOP








Grace Jones at Studio 54, 1978: A Look Back



Culture








Tropical Storm Lee's Remnants Bring Fresh Flood Worries To East Coast



Extreme Weather









Paul Hamm Arrested: Olympic Champ Accused Of Assault In Ohio



Olympics








GOP Debate: Jon Huntsman 'The Best He's Ever Been'



Tea Party








Rick Perry On Death Penalty And 'Ultimate Justice' In Texas: 'I've Never Struggled With That'



Death Penalty




more big news pages »
			





 

































FRONT PAGE


UK
U.S.
CANADA




POLITICS


POLITICS
HUFFPOST HILL
2012 ELECTIONS


GREEN
POLLSTER
SPECULATRON




BUSINESS


DAILYFINANCE
SMALL BUSINESS
AUTOBLOG


REAL ESTATE
JOBS
THE WATCHDOG




ENTERTAINMENT


CELEBRITY
ENTERTAINMENT
MUSIC


MOVIES
TV
GAMES.COM




TECH


HUFFPOST TECH
ENGADGET
APPLE BLOG


TECHCRUNCH
JOYSTIQ
TRANSLOGIC




MEDIA


LIFE & STYLE


STYLE NEWS
FOOD
DIVORCE
TRAVEL
IMPACT


STYLELIST
RECIPES
RELIGION
GREEN
HOME/DIY




CULTURE


ARTS
PARENTS
TRAVEL
COLLEGE


RELIGION
IMPACT
BOOKS
EDUCATION




COMEDY


URLESQUE




HEALTHY LIVING


BODY
SPIRIT


MIND
HEALTH NEWS




WOMEN


HEALTHY LIVING
PARENTS




LOCAL


NEW YORK
SAN FRANCISCO
DENVER
PATCH


CHICAGO
LOS ANGELES
TRAVEL
MAPQUEST




MORE


BLACKVOICES
SPORTS
WORLD
EDUCATION


LATINOVOICES
COLLEGE
CRIME
WEIRD NEWS











LATINO VOICES 






Advertise | 

Make HuffPost your Home Page | 
RSS | 
Careers | 
FAQ


User Agreement | 
Privacy | 
Comment Policy | 
About Us | 
Contact Us


Copyright © 2011 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. | 
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.







 



























HuffPost Lightbox

















