Harang helps San Diego Padres hand San Francisco Giants crucial loss | abc7news.com































KGO-TV San Francisco, CA








ABC7 News



ureport
Most Popular
San Francisco
East Bay
South Bay
Peninsula
North Bay
California
National/World
7 On Your Side
I-Team
Assignment 7
Politics
Entertainment
ABC7 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Business
Watercooler
Health
Technology
Green
Education
ABC7 Salutes
Drive to Discover
ABC7 Focus on Solutions






Accuweather    
         









59°
P/CLOUDY





Weather Home
7-Day Forecast
Live Doppler 7 Maps
Live Doppler 7 Video
Street-Level Weather
MORE TOPICS +


Live Web Cams
Watches/Warnings
Earthquake Tracker






Video & Photos



Video on Demand
Live Video
Photo Galleries
Most Popular Video
Raw Video
MORE TOPICS +


Live Weather Video






ABC7 Extras



7Live
Bay Area Traffic
About ABC7 & News Team
Contests & Promotions
Community
Jobs
TV Listings
ABC Shows
Live Well Network
ABC7 Taking Action
Games





Marketplace



San Francisco Area Jobs
Classifieds
Get Coupons






























MLB








SPORTS HOME


MLB 


Scores


Standings




NBA 


Scores


Standings




NFL 


Scores


Standings




PGA 


Schedule/Results


Northern California Golf Guide




NHL 


Scores


Standings




Racing 


NASCAR Schedule




NCAA FB 


Scores


Standings


Rankings




NCAA BB 


NCAA BB Scores


NCAA BB Standings


NCAA BB Rankings


NCAA WB


NCAA WBB Scores


NCAA WBB Standings


NCAA WBB Rankings




LOCAL 


Northern California Golf Guide




Harang helps Padres hand Giants crucial loss
Wednesday, September 07, 2011








										San Diego Padres' Cameron Maybin (24) slides safely into third base to beat the tag by San Francisco Giants' Pablo Sandoval, second from left, after hitting a triple during the eighth inning of a baseball game against the San Francisco Giants at Petco Park on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2011, in San Diego. (AP Photo/ Kent C. Horner)
                                    	
										(AP Photo)
										


 
Tags:san francisco giants, at&t park, mlb


Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 

  

SAN DIEGO -- 
Padres 3, Giants 1	
  The San Francisco Giants know time is running short on defending their World Series title.    Aaron Harang threw seven strong innings and Cameron Maybin had two hits and an RBI as the San Diego Padres dealt a big blow to the Giants' fading playoff hopes with a 3-1 victory Wednesday night.    The Giants, who have 19 games left, came into the game trailing NL West-leading Arizona by six games. San Francisco has dropped three of four and six of 10.    "We have to win," Giants starting pitcher Matt Cain said. "That's all we have to do, is win."    San Francisco was going for a sweep of the three-game series against a club it had beaten six of the previous seven games at Petco Park.    But Cain, who is 8-19 lifetime against the Padres, had little to show for allowing two runs and four hits in seven innings. After he allowed Will Venable's leadoff homer in the first, he settled down and retired 11 consecutive batters before he issued two walks. Cain didn't allow another hit until Maybin's two-out double in the sixth.    "He did a great job," Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. "He gave up the leadoff homer and then he dealt. He keeps grinding out there for us."    Cain (11-10) struck out seven and walked three as he made his 200th career start.    San Francisco rookie Brett Pill homered for a second straight game after he hit a home run Tuesday night in his first major league at-bat.    "It's kind of frustrating when we can't really do anything for Matt," Pill said.    Venable scored twice, while Maybin doubled and tripled in a run in the ninth.    The Padres got clutch defensive plays by Venable and Maybin.    The first was by Maybin, who made a long running catch while crashing into the wall in left-center field to rob Justin Christian leading off the game. Maybin hit his forehead on the padded wall and was on the ground for about a minute before he got up and stayed in the game.    "I kind of face-planted dead square," Maybin said. "Luckily, I was able to make a play and keep the early momentum because those guys take advantage."    Venable threw out Pill at home in the seventh when the rookie tried to score on a medium fly ball to right by pinch-hitter Pat Burrell.    "It's one of those things that you have to go for it," Bochy said. "It took a perfect throw. Those are the things you look back on and they hurt."    Said Harang: "The guys made some good plays from the first hitter of the game that kind of set the tone. It showed the intensity and excitement level that was going to happen."    San Diego, last in the NL West at 62-81, won for the second time in 13 games overall.    "That's the kind of intensity we have to bring day in and day out, no matter where we are in the standings," Maybin said.    Harang (13-5) broke a two-start losing streak by allowing one run and four hits in seven innings. Harang, who struck out three and walked three, is 2-0 with a 0.90 ERA in three starts this season against the Giants, all at Petco Park.    Heath Bell got the final four outs for his 36th save in 40 chances. Bell replaced Chad Qualls in the eighth and threw one pitch to retire Carlos Beltran on a line drive to right with a runner on first and two outs.    Venable led off the Padres' first with his seventh homer to right. It also extended his season club record for leadoff homers to five.    The home run was the third allowed by Cain in his last 20 starts. Overall, Cain has given up only eight homers.    "Everything was feeling all right," he said. "I was trying to get ahead of guys and get early strikes."    Pill tied the game with a homer leading off the fifth. Pill joined John Bowker as the only two players in franchise history to homer in their first two major league games.    Pill homered off Wade LeBlanc on Tuesday night in his first major league at-bat, a two-run shot in the second inning of the Giants' 6-4 win.    The Padres took a 2-1 lead in the sixth when Jesus Guzman singled in Maybin, who reached on a two-out double.    Notes: Cain has pitched 203 innings this season, the fifth straight season he has reached the 200-inning mark. ... Bowker homered in his major league debut on April 12, 2008, and again the next day. ... Padres manager Bud Black said after the game that INF Logan Forsythe would undergo surgery on his left knee on Thursday. Forsythe has not played since Friday with an inflamed patellar tendon in his right knee. But Black said Forsythe's left knee, surgically repaired in the offseason, starting bothering him midway through this season. ... After a day off, Giants RHP Tim Lincecum (12-12, 2.75 ERA) will attempt to beat the Los Angeles Dodgers for the first time this season in four starts (0-2, 1.86) on Friday to open a six-game homestand. LHP Clayton Kershaw (17-5, 2.45) pitches for the Dodgers. ... LHP Cory Luebke (5-8, 3.29) will start for the Padres on Thursday at Arizona, facing NL wins leader RHP Ian Kennedy (18-4, 2.96).        


    (Copyright ©2011 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more MLB »

Tags:san francisco giants, at&t park, mlb



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published



Pill homers in 1st big league AB, Giants win


Comment Now



Share










Hosmer, Francoeur hit HRs in Royals' win over A's


Comment Now



Share










Butler leads the Royals past A's, 11-6


Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Arrest made in Michelle Le homicide investigation
37 min ago


Romney, Perry spar over jobs, Social Security
19 min ago


Victims' names released in Nevada IHOP rampage



Business leaders speak at SF jobs summit



Calaveras wildfire at least 40 percent contained



New Audio: Gadhafi denies rumor he fled Libya



PG&E agrees to move Belmont gas line



PG&E took 90 minutes to shut off gas in Cupertino



Bon Jovi in 9/11 encore sings for NY firefighters



GOP pipeline bill would block safety reforms



abcnews: Cheney tells GOP candidates to watch their mouths



blog: Paying more for less at the grocery store



roundup: Golden Gate security; Michelle Le arrest



weather: Bay Area weather forecast for Wednesday



MORE:
Most popular | Hot video | Contact ABC7 | uReport

 


1.


Bay Area weather forecast for Wednesday


2.


Couple feuds with Dish over Sharks games


3.


San Mateo County tests tsunami warning system


4.


7Live: Jackie Speier: GOP proposal ignores NTSB recommendations

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 
 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


SF supervisor proposes ban on naked seating

Most Viewed Video


Former friend of Michelle Le arrested on suspicion of murder

Most Viewed Photos


Wildfires tear through Texas




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc7news.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KGO-TV/DT San Francisco, CA. All Rights Reserved.

























