Remembering United Flight 93 victims from the Bay Area | abc7news.com































KGO-TV San Francisco, CA








ABC7 News



ureport
Most Popular
San Francisco
East Bay
South Bay
Peninsula
North Bay
California
National/World
7 On Your Side
I-Team
Assignment 7
Politics
Entertainment
ABC7 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Business
Watercooler
Health
Technology
Green
Education
ABC7 Salutes
Drive to Discover
ABC7 Focus on Solutions






Accuweather    
         









59°
P/CLOUDY





Weather Home
7-Day Forecast
Live Doppler 7 Maps
Live Doppler 7 Video
Street-Level Weather
MORE TOPICS +


Live Web Cams
Watches/Warnings
Earthquake Tracker






Video & Photos



Video on Demand
Live Video
Photo Galleries
Most Popular Video
Raw Video
MORE TOPICS +


Live Weather Video






ABC7 Extras



7Live
Bay Area Traffic
About ABC7 & News Team
Contests & Promotions
Community
Jobs
TV Listings
ABC Shows
Live Well Network
ABC7 Taking Action
Games





Marketplace



San Francisco Area Jobs
Classifieds
Get Coupons






























South Bay News
Remembering Bay Area United Flight 93 victims
Wednesday, September 07, 2011
















 
Tags:september 11th, south bay news, laura anthony



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 



Laura Anthony

More: Bio, E-mail, Twitter, News Team






SANTA CLARA COUNTY, Calif. (KGO) -- 
The 10th anniversary of the 9/11attacks is this weekend and so ABC7 takes a look at Bay Area families who lost loved ones on United Flight 93. It left Newark that morning bound for San Francisco, but crashed in Pennsylvania after passengers fought so bravely to stop the terrorists. 	
  Cathy Stefani has saved a phone message for 10 years and it is one she'll never erase. It's of her daughter saying, "Hi Mom, it's me. Pick up the phone... Mother? Anyway, I take United Airlines tomorrow, 8 o'clock tomorrow morning, Flight Number 93..."  The message was the last time Stefani heard the voice of her 21-year-old daughter. Nicole Miller was among the 45 passengers and crew who died when Flight 93 crashed in a grassy field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. 
Related ContentStory: San Jose schools honor Flight 93 pilotStory: Travel in a post-9/11 worldStory: Bay Area response team reflects back on 9/11Story: 9/11 video shows moments after Flight 93 crash  "To me, it seems like it's a dream," said Stefani.      Miller had flown out from San Jose to New Jersey to visit a friend on a last-minute trip.  "She was due to fly home on Monday night.  She called my work because her plane was delayed, saying that they might cancel her flight and they rebooked her for the flight for Tuesday morning on September 11th," said Stefani.  Months earlier, Miller celebrated her 21st birthday with a bright smile, surrounded by family and friends. Weeks before 9/11, the college student happily danced at a family wedding.     "For her to die so young, at the age of 21, is a waste," said Stefani. "She was a very happy-go-lucky, loving, friendly person to everybody."  Another Bay Area family suffered a great loss as well.   "Just a overall, genuinely nice, personable guy," said Carol Heiderich.   Carol's brother, Jason Dahl, was the captain of Flight 93. Based in Denver, Dahl grew up in the South Bay and attended San Jose State, where he joined a club called the Flying Twenties.  "It was a love of his.  I can remember him as my 13-year-old little brother that loved flying and being part of Reed-Hillview's... going out to the airport, being part of civil air patrol," said Carol.  When Carol and her husband bill learned about the hijackings the morning of 9/11, they had no idea Dahl was flying that day.  "I had hopes that he was still in Denver at the training center, what he would normally do for work," said Carol.  Then a family member called saying Dahl had gone down with Flight 93.  "I think we looked for Jason to just come through the door for months. We just thought this was some kind of horrible mistake," said Bill Heiderich, Jason's brother in law.  In the years since 9/11, there have been many tributes to Jason, including the renaming of the San Jose elementary school he attended. Now, the Heinerichs, Stefani and their families will travel to Shanksville for the 10th anniversary. They take with them hope that the next decade brings a new measure of peace without ever forgetting what happened that day.  "That is the number one thing, that we don't forget what's happened and forget all of the victims of that day," said Carol.  "There's always that thought, that fear that it is going to happen again.  I tell you what& I hope it doesn't because it was& it is... a nightmare," said Cathy.  "With this terrific loss, has been also been a terrific wakening," said Bill. "We don't take anything for granted anymore."  Special Coverage: ABC7 News will carry special coverage of the nation's commemoration of 9/11. Beginning Friday, Wayne Freedman will report live from New York City and Lilian Kim from Shanksville, Pennsylvania.  On Sunday, ABC News begins our live coverage of the September 11th ceremonies with a special edition of Good Morning America from 5 a.m. - 8 a.m. and that will be followed by ABC 7 Morning News from 8 a.m. - 10 a.m.     


    (Copyright ©2011 KGO-TV/DT. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more South Bay News »

Tags:september 11th, south bay news, laura anthony



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published


Santa Cruz officials grieve murdered attorney


Comment Now



Share










PG&E took 90 minutes to shut off gas in Cupertino


Comment Now



Share










San Jose considers liquor license restrictions


Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Arrest made in Michelle Le homicide investigation
37 min ago


Romney, Perry spar over jobs, Social Security
19 min ago


Victims' names released in Nevada IHOP rampage



Business leaders speak at SF jobs summit



Calaveras wildfire at least 40 percent contained



New Audio: Gadhafi denies rumor he fled Libya



PG&E agrees to move Belmont gas line



PG&E took 90 minutes to shut off gas in Cupertino



Bon Jovi in 9/11 encore sings for NY firefighters



GOP pipeline bill would block safety reforms



abcnews: Cheney tells GOP candidates to watch their mouths



blog: Paying more for less at the grocery store



roundup: Golden Gate security; Michelle Le arrest



weather: Bay Area weather forecast for Wednesday



MORE:
Most popular | Hot video | Contact ABC7 | uReport

 


1.


Bay Area weather forecast for Wednesday


2.


Couple feuds with Dish over Sharks games


3.


San Mateo County tests tsunami warning system


4.


7Live: Jackie Speier: GOP proposal ignores NTSB recommendations

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 
 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


SF supervisor proposes ban on naked seating

Most Viewed Video


Former friend of Michelle Le arrested on suspicion of murder

Most Viewed Photos


Wildfires tear through Texas




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc7news.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KGO-TV/DT San Francisco, CA. All Rights Reserved.

























