School district remind parents about critical vaccination deadline | abc7news.com































KGO-TV San Francisco, CA








ABC7 News



ureport
Most Popular
San Francisco
East Bay
South Bay
Peninsula
North Bay
California
National/World
7 On Your Side
I-Team
Assignment 7
Politics
Entertainment
ABC7 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Business
Watercooler
Health
Technology
Green
Education
ABC7 Salutes
Drive to Discover
ABC7 Focus on Solutions






Accuweather    
         









59°
P/CLOUDY





Weather Home
7-Day Forecast
Live Doppler 7 Maps
Live Doppler 7 Video
Street-Level Weather
MORE TOPICS +


Live Web Cams
Watches/Warnings
Earthquake Tracker






Video & Photos



Video on Demand
Live Video
Photo Galleries
Most Popular Video
Raw Video
MORE TOPICS +


Live Weather Video






ABC7 Extras



7Live
Bay Area Traffic
About ABC7 & News Team
Contests & Promotions
Community
Jobs
TV Listings
ABC Shows
Live Well Network
ABC7 Taking Action
Games





Marketplace



San Francisco Area Jobs
Classifieds
Get Coupons






























Education
Schools remind parents about critical vaccination deadline
Wednesday, September 07, 2011
















 
Tags:union city, education, lyanne melendez



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 



Lyanne Melendez

More: Bio, E-mail, Facebook, Twitter, News Team






School districts are reminding parents to get their kids vaccinated against whooping cough; the deadline is coming up fast and only applies to 7th through 12th graders. Kids won't be allowed to come to school with the shot.	
   A parent has 30 days beyond the first day of school to have their kid vaccinated.  So if school started on Sept. 1, then the deadline is Sept. 30.  Even with all the notices and alerts, some kids have not been vaccinated or have not turned in their certificates and schools are worried.  The health center at James Logan High School in Union City offers Tdap vaccines for only $11.  School district officials have been reaching out to parents since last spring when the state ordered every 7th grader and up to be vaccinated against whooping cough.     The New Haven Unified School District has 6,000 students that fall under that category.  "But we still have about 1,200 to go. So 80 percent is a good number, but we still have work to do just in the next couple of weeks before the deadline," said Rick La Plante from New Haven.  Whooping cough is a serious respiratory disease that can cause death among infants.  Students know why it's important to get a booster.  "To prevent the spread of diseases and to keep everybody healthy," said student Angel Bonilla.   It's been up to school districts and local health departments to assist parents in getting the vaccine their kids need.    "Shortly thereafter, we started reaching out to the community primarily through automatic phone call in English and Spanish and then letters sent home to the parents in English and Spanish," said La Plante.  The New Haven Unified School District is telling parents if their child is not vaccinated by September 30, he or she will be turned away.  San Francisco's deadline is September 14.  School there started earlier. For those San Francisco families who think they can't afford the vaccine, they should know, health care for San Francisco children is free.  "Every child under 18 has access to health care in San Francisco. If your child does not have health care call 311 and they can connect you to enrollment in the Healthy Kids program," said Lisa Hedden from the San Francisco Health Department.   Many pharmacies offer the vaccine, but if you go to your school district's website, you'll be able to find some health clinics that give the vaccine for free or at a much cheaper price.    


    (Copyright ©2011 KGO-TV/DT. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more Education »

Tags:union city, education, lyanne melendez



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published



Schools remind parents about critical vaccination deadline


Comment Now



Share










Some schools replace textbooks with iPads


Comment Now



Share










Oakland superintendent talks of closing schools


Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Arrest made in Michelle Le homicide investigation
37 min ago


Romney, Perry spar over jobs, Social Security
19 min ago


Victims' names released in Nevada IHOP rampage



Business leaders speak at SF jobs summit



Calaveras wildfire at least 40 percent contained



New Audio: Gadhafi denies rumor he fled Libya



PG&E agrees to move Belmont gas line



PG&E took 90 minutes to shut off gas in Cupertino



Bon Jovi in 9/11 encore sings for NY firefighters



GOP pipeline bill would block safety reforms



abcnews: Cheney tells GOP candidates to watch their mouths



blog: Paying more for less at the grocery store



roundup: Golden Gate security; Michelle Le arrest



weather: Bay Area weather forecast for Wednesday



MORE:
Most popular | Hot video | Contact ABC7 | uReport

 


1.


Bay Area weather forecast for Wednesday


2.


Couple feuds with Dish over Sharks games


3.


San Mateo County tests tsunami warning system


4.


7Live: Jackie Speier: GOP proposal ignores NTSB recommendations

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 
 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


SF supervisor proposes ban on naked seating

Most Viewed Video


Former friend of Michelle Le arrested on suspicion of murder

Most Viewed Photos


Wildfires tear through Texas




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc7news.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KGO-TV/DT San Francisco, CA. All Rights Reserved.

























