Man Faces Child Endangerment Charges After Child Eats Pot Cookies - Page 1 - News - San Francisco - SF Weekly













 


News












News 




Music 




Calendar 




Restaurants 




 
 
 

Arts 




Movies 




The Ads 




Classifieds 










Blogs 




Columns 




Best Of 




Bars/Clubs 




Archives 




Mobile 

Promotions 




Coupons 






















Top news Stories






 Blogs
Lost iPhone 5: SFPD Launches 'Internal Investigation'
By Peter Jamison




 Blogs
DA George Gascón Defends Handling of DNA Memo
By Peter Jamison




 Blogs
Supervisor Scott Weiner Doesn't Want to See Your Weiner
By Erin Sherbert




 Blogs
Devices Women Can Use to Pee Standing Up
By Lauren Smiley




 Blogs
How to Survive a Marijuana Raid
By Chris Roberts




 Blogs
Anonymous Releases NSFW Photos of BART Official
By Erin Sherbert




 Blogs
Anonymous Can't Agree on BART Protests
By Lauren Smiley




 Blogs
49ers Ban Tailgating During Games
By Caroline Chen




&nbsp




Share






 

Man Faces Child Endangerment Charges After Child Eats Pot Cookies


A A A Comments (3)
    By Peter Jamison Wednesday, Sep 7 2011

















On May 1, an Inner Parkside woman arrived home from a party her three kids had attended, held by the father of her children's school friends. Soon she noticed that her 4-year-old daughter was acting strange. "I started calling her name, and she wouldn't look at me," the woman recalls. "She would just look off in some other direction and laugh."



Fred Noland




Related Content


AG's Office Warns of Gang-and-Drug Armageddon If State Budget PassesJune 28, 2011DA Candidates Call for Release of Secret Crime Lab Memo, Citing SF Weekly Cover StorySeptember 6, 2011DNA Lab Fallout: Lawyers Ask Judge to Dismiss Rape Cases Over Sample SwitchDecember 10, 2010New Hamsterdam: A silver lining in S.F.'s crime-lab fiasco?May 19, 2010Dennis Peron, Local Pot Guru, Cleared of Criminal ChargesAugust 3, 2011 

More About


Mark FriesenSan Francisco District Attorney's OfficeMatthew SirokaCrime and LawCrime 

 

As her daughter began to act more and more, well, stoned, the woman recalled an odd encounter. As she was leaving the party, Mark Friesen, the 37-year-old host, had approached her and given her a small bag with some treats inside. "These are adult cookies," he allegedly said to the woman. She began to suspect that her daughter had accidentally eaten marijuana cookies at the party.
The mother, whose name SF Weekly is withholding to protect the identity of her daughter, called an ambulance as the girl appeared to become catatonic. At the hospital, the girl's stomach was pumped. "We got to the emergency room and she ended up having two seizures," the woman says. "She was basically unresponsive for 12 hours. It wasn't until the next afternoon that she woke up.
"It was horrible," she adds. "When the fire truck came, I thought for sure she wasdying."
As a result of the incident, Friesen was charged by the San Francisco District Attorney's office with a felony count of child endangerment and a felony count related to the sale, transportation, or giving away of marijuana. He referred questions from a reporter to his attorney, who declined to comment on the case. "We can't really comment on an ongoing prosecution," says Matthew Siroka, Friesen's lawyer. "As far as the girl goes, it's obviously a terrible thing, and we feel terrible that she had to go to the hospital and the family had to suffer."
The girl has fully recovered, according to her mother. Friesen's fate is less certain. He pleaded not guilty to the charges against him in May, and his next appearance in courtis scheduled for Sept. 21,according to DA spokesmanSeth Steward.
The victim's mother says she was upset less by the fact that pot cookies were available in Friesen's kitchen — it was actuallythe girl's father who gave her one, ignorant of its psychotropic properties — than about Friesen's unwillingness to help after the fact. When the woman called Friesen as her daughter became sick to find out what was in the cookies,"He just started laughing," she alleges. "He said, 'Oh, what's the big deal? Let her sleep it off.' And then he hung up."
In a city famous for tolerating pot consumption of all varieties, this Inner Parkside family's ordeal was a reminder that neither bud nor its users are always kind. 




  Check out this week's featured ad for News





View Ad
View Website



More Ads >>
 




Share

















Emailto Friend
Write toEditor
PrintArticle 





 



SFMom 09/07/2011 7:30:00 PM
Wait a Minute!- do not generalize "In a city famous for tolerating pot consumption" speaking as a long time San Francisco resident, parent and grandparent let me assure your readers that at no time would 'we' condone this kind of behavior under any conditions.
As far as I am concerned, marijuana should be strictly monitored, taxed and used for medical purposes only.


BobJones 09/07/2011 3:48:00 PM
Yeah he should have known the cookies available at a toddler party were "happy cookies" since that is standard protocol.  One should always assume all cookies have pot in them - that's reasonable.  


ctsmith 09/07/2011 8:41:00 AM
Sounds like the father should be charged then. Its his stupidness that let the kid eat the weed brownies.





Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
 












Most Popular Stories






 
Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings 



 
The Billion-Dollar Bet: Which Pension Reform Measure Will Pass and Survive Legal Challenge 



 
SF State's Hazardous Waste Cleanup Cost Millions More Than It Should Have 

More Most Popular>>





Bouncer: Onetime Dive Grasslands Now a Tourist Spot (3)



Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings (6)



The Billion-Dollar Bet: Which Pension Reform Measure Will Pass and Survive Legal Challenge (13)


More Most Commented >>





Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings 


SF State's Hazardous Waste Cleanup Cost Millions More Than It Should Have 


The Amazing Stories of Mayoral Candidate Tony Hall 

More Most Emailed >>























SF Weekly on Facebook


Latest SF Weekly on Facebook






                        Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings                    






                        Tacko: The Nantucket Gringo Take on the Taco                    






                        Outside Lands: Fifteen Lesser-Known Artists You Shouldn't Miss                    




Latest In Your Facebook Network

Loading...





Slideshows»

  International Cannabis and Hemp Expo   CatClub's Sixxteen Photobooth   Bike Party Rolls Through San Francisco  More Slideshows >>














                        Five Other Slow and Obsolete Technologies Mayor Ed Lee Still Uses                     






                        College Guys Are Hotter Than College Girls, Newsweek says                    






                        Supervisor Scott Wiener Doesn't Want to See Your Wiener                     





            More News Stories >
        











Best of San Francisco


2010 - People & Places



                        Best Black-and-White Photo Booth                    


                        RayKo Photo Center                    



                        Best DIY Community Center                    


                        Workshop                    





            More People & Places Awards >
        












 






San Francisco Classifieds

buy, sell, trade (5,863)
musician (545)
rentals (2,211)
jobs (500)
personals (542)
adult entertainment (14,033)













Special Reports


The Worst-Run Big City in the U.S.The Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: The Muni Death SpiralThe Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: Let It BleedThe Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: How the Happy Meal Ban Explains San FranciscoThe Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: Inefficient by DesignPremium Pay Nets City Workers Millions in Bonuses for Just Doing Their JobsThe Truth About BruceSF Weekly Appeals the Bay Guardian's Big Payday to a Higher CourtThe Bay Guardian's Predatory LawsuitFalloutToxic AcresShades of Gray More Special Reports >>








foam order.com
 

Memory Foam Mattress
Cushions
Organic Mattress
Folding foam
Neoprene



 



 







About Us |
    Work for SF Weekly |
    Esubscribe |
    Free Classifieds |
    SF Weekly Advertising |
    National Online Advertising |
    Mobile |
    Privacy Policy |
    Terms of Use |
    Problem With the Site? |
    RSS |
    Site Map



© 2011 SF Weekly, LP, All rights reserved.









 Browse Voice Nation
        

Most Popular | Most Recent 






Profile | Newsletters | Mobile


                Log in 


                Sign up 





New York Village Voice
LA Weekly
Phoenix New Times


Denver Westword
Houston Press
Dallas Observer


SF Weekly
Seattle Weekly
St. Louis RFT


Miami New Times
Minneapolis City Pages
OC Weekly


Broward/Palm Beach New Times





Voice Places
Discover restaurants, nightlife, travel, shopping...



VOICE Daily Deals
Get 50 to 90% off every day on restaurants, movies, massages...



Best Of...
More than 10,000 of the BEST things to eat, drink, and experience



My Voice Nation
Join the Village Voice community and get exclusive deals and info



Happy Hour
Your local Happy Hour guide at your fingertips




or

Log in or Sign up
Social Connect:
Use your favorite account to access My Voice Nation.







Use your My Voice Nation account to log in:

E-mail

Password

Forgot password?

Remember me





or

Sign Up or Log in
Social Connect:
Sign up for My Voice Nation with your preferred network.







Sign up for a My Voice Nation account:


E-mail





Sign Up
Privacy policy





Settings
Log Out




























