City Hall's $700,000 Ramp Will Actually Cost $1.1 Million - Page 1 - News - San Francisco - SF Weekly













 


News












News 




Music 




Calendar 




Restaurants 




 
 
 

Arts 




Movies 




The Ads 




Classifieds 










Blogs 




Columns 




Best Of 




Bars/Clubs 




Archives 




Mobile 

Promotions 




Coupons 






















Top news Stories






 Blogs
Lost iPhone 5: SFPD Launches 'Internal Investigation'
By Peter Jamison




 Blogs
DA George Gascón Defends Handling of DNA Memo
By Peter Jamison




 Blogs
Supervisor Scott Weiner Doesn't Want to See Your Weiner
By Erin Sherbert




 Blogs
Devices Women Can Use to Pee Standing Up
By Lauren Smiley




 Blogs
How to Survive a Marijuana Raid
By Chris Roberts




 Blogs
Anonymous Releases NSFW Photos of BART Official
By Erin Sherbert




 Blogs
Anonymous Can't Agree on BART Protests
By Lauren Smiley




 Blogs
49ers Ban Tailgating During Games
By Caroline Chen




&nbsp




Share






 

City Hall's $700,000 Ramp Will Actually Cost $1.1 Million


A A A Comments (1)
    By Joe Eskenazi Wednesday, Sep 7 2011















Last week, the Chronicle ran a piece itemizing the costs of the $700,000, 10-foot ramp to the president's dais within the Board of Supervisors' chambers. While it's good to run a story periodically reminding San Franciscans that we are spending vast sums of money on a 10-foot ramp, it's not exactly breaking news.



 

The same alarming numbers cited in the Chron were laid out in a Budget and Legislative Analyst's report from early February. It's all in there: the $477,732 budgeted for parts and labor; the $170,641 already spent in planning costs; the $51,042 estimate for alternative housing for the Board of Supervisors meetings for six weeks. This is, again, to create a 10-foot-long ramp.
Leave it to San Francisco, however, to ensure that a $700,000 ramp actually costs far, far more. As anyone who's financed a home, car, or education knows, one easy way to do that is to buy now and pay later. That's right: The city is paying for its new ramp via debt financing.
The funds to plan and construct the ramp are part of $48 million in "certificates of participation" — which function similarly to general obligation bonds, but voters don't get to weigh in on them. Assuming an interest rate of 6.5 percent, Budget Analyst Harvey Rose calculates that interest and financing costs on the ramp will come out to $439,648. So, over the course of 20 years, that ramp should cost San Francisco around $1.1 million. To those wondering if the ramp will be worth its weight in gold: At the sky-high current rate of $1,800 per ounce, the ramp would have to weigh around 38 pounds. So, no, it won't.
Susan Mizner, head of the Mayor's Office of Disability, notes that the price of the ramp represents one-third of 1 percent of the money poured into revamping City Hall in the last 25 years. Others have noted that the cost of making the president's dais accessible via ramp could have been dwarfed by the cost of an Americans with Disabilities Act lawsuit — and if the city lost, the ramp would have to be built anyway.
In the end, San Francisco is damned if it does and damned if it doesn't. Either way, tons of public money will be spent. That, in this city, is a prerequisite. 




  Check out this week's featured ad for News





View Ad
View Website



More Ads >>
 




Share

















Emailto Friend
Write toEditor
PrintArticle 





 



RBOrbust 09/08/2011 1:07:00 AM
Good reporting on the ACTUAL costs.





Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
 












Most Popular Stories






 
Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings 



 
The Billion-Dollar Bet: Which Pension Reform Measure Will Pass and Survive Legal Challenge 



 
SF State's Hazardous Waste Cleanup Cost Millions More Than It Should Have 

More Most Popular>>





Bouncer: Onetime Dive Grasslands Now a Tourist Spot (3)



Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings (6)



The Billion-Dollar Bet: Which Pension Reform Measure Will Pass and Survive Legal Challenge (13)


More Most Commented >>





Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings 


SF State's Hazardous Waste Cleanup Cost Millions More Than It Should Have 


The Amazing Stories of Mayoral Candidate Tony Hall 

More Most Emailed >>























SF Weekly on Facebook


Latest SF Weekly on Facebook






                        Crime Lab Confidential: DA and SFPD Withheld Damaging Memo About DNA Lab Failings                    






                        Tacko: The Nantucket Gringo Take on the Taco                    






                        Outside Lands: Fifteen Lesser-Known Artists You Shouldn't Miss                    




Latest In Your Facebook Network

Loading...





Slideshows»

  International Cannabis and Hemp Expo   CatClub's Sixxteen Photobooth   Bike Party Rolls Through San Francisco  More Slideshows >>














                        Five Other Slow and Obsolete Technologies Mayor Ed Lee Still Uses                     






                        College Guys Are Hotter Than College Girls, Newsweek says                    






                        Supervisor Scott Wiener Doesn't Want to See Your Wiener                     





            More News Stories >
        











Best of San Francisco


2010 - People & Places



                        Best Black-and-White Photo Booth                    


                        RayKo Photo Center                    



                        Best DIY Community Center                    


                        Workshop                    





            More People & Places Awards >
        












 






San Francisco Classifieds

buy, sell, trade (5,863)
musician (545)
rentals (2,211)
jobs (500)
personals (542)
adult entertainment (14,033)













Special Reports


The Worst-Run Big City in the U.S.The Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: The Muni Death SpiralThe Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: Let It BleedThe Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: How the Happy Meal Ban Explains San FranciscoThe Worst Run Big City in the U.S.: Inefficient by DesignPremium Pay Nets City Workers Millions in Bonuses for Just Doing Their JobsThe Truth About BruceSF Weekly Appeals the Bay Guardian's Big Payday to a Higher CourtThe Bay Guardian's Predatory LawsuitFalloutToxic AcresShades of Gray More Special Reports >>








foam order.com
 

Memory Foam Mattress
Cushions
Organic Mattress
Folding foam
Neoprene



 



 







About Us |
    Work for SF Weekly |
    Esubscribe |
    Free Classifieds |
    SF Weekly Advertising |
    National Online Advertising |
    Mobile |
    Privacy Policy |
    Terms of Use |
    Problem With the Site? |
    RSS |
    Site Map



© 2011 SF Weekly, LP, All rights reserved.









 Browse Voice Nation
        

Most Popular | Most Recent 






Profile | Newsletters | Mobile


                Log in 


                Sign up 





New York Village Voice
LA Weekly
Phoenix New Times


Denver Westword
Houston Press
Dallas Observer


SF Weekly
Seattle Weekly
St. Louis RFT


Miami New Times
Minneapolis City Pages
OC Weekly


Broward/Palm Beach New Times





Voice Places
Discover restaurants, nightlife, travel, shopping...



VOICE Daily Deals
Get 50 to 90% off every day on restaurants, movies, massages...



Best Of...
More than 10,000 of the BEST things to eat, drink, and experience



My Voice Nation
Join the Village Voice community and get exclusive deals and info



Happy Hour
Your local Happy Hour guide at your fingertips




or

Log in or Sign up
Social Connect:
Use your favorite account to access My Voice Nation.







Use your My Voice Nation account to log in:

E-mail

Password

Forgot password?

Remember me





or

Sign Up or Log in
Social Connect:
Sign up for My Voice Nation with your preferred network.







Sign up for a My Voice Nation account:


E-mail





Sign Up
Privacy policy





Settings
Log Out




























