
          Noisy Berkeley Neighbors Revisited. Category: Reader Commentaries from The Berkeley Daily Planet
    












Current Issue

Previous Issue

Search The Planet



Contact Us


Issue PDFs











            Wednesday
            
            September 07, 2011
          






Front Page
Opinion
Columnists

Arts & Entertainment

Contents

Full Text












              Reader Commentaries
            


Noisy Berkeley Neighbors Revisited



By John Vinopal


Wednesday September 07, 2011


















              With a second commentary regarding the vicissitudes of City living, I wonder if the first commentator might reflect on her good fortune to live next to a law-abiding neighbor who has an afternoon party once a year rather than a group house of howling students?  If this is not consolation enough, she might further reflect on not living next to an elementary school (daytime yelling), a middle school (same plus trash), the high school (add car radios), or southside in general (all of the above plus public urination). I may be particularly unsympathetic because I read the first commentary during my neighbor's week-long infestation of tile-cutting contractors, but this does seem to be something endemic of Berkeley: if someone is having a good time, someone else seems dead set against it even if they're being wildly unrealistic. As a reformed (ie: aged) student hooligan myself, I empathize with both the Parker street neighbors and the hooligans.  Why did the City permit the construction of a student clown-car in the shape of a SFR?  What kind of student were they imagining wanted to live with 20 others?  (Hint: ask District 7.)  As Measure R proved, Downtown is the only place left in the City to build student slums because no other district wants the blight of additional concrete soft-story monsters (or their Trojan kin). But not all vicissitudes are bad!  I would like to heartily thank the North Berkeley association, council-members, and the forbearance of the North Berkeley neighbors who helped make the Chez Panisse streetside cafe and Cheeseboard's party such a lovely time.  Likewise the Downtown movie nights: packed with people.  Or the Wednesday food truck brigade: ridiculous lines. These are events that one personally might not like, but their popularity shows they help make up for the lousy parts of living in a City.  I'd still prefer my neighbor had a rooster rather than their seemingly incessant leaf-blowing, but the consolation of a streetside glass of wine helps. Please more events like these, and please stop building student slums downtown. 










Links we like:
www.berkeleycouncilwatch.com/
Richard Brenneman: Eats, Shoots 'n' Leaves
Jane Stillwater’s Web Log




















              Support Local News!
              
              Give to the
              
              Fund for Local Reporting!
            



                  Email to
                  .
                  
                    subscribe at BerkeleyDailyPlanet.com
                  


                  and get free email updates.
                




                The Pepper Spray Times
              

                Read The September Issue
              

                (and please support Grace Underpressure with a donation :-)
              

     





































