BART, PG&E targeted for protests | San Francisco Bay Guardian





 
 




               
                San Francisco Bay Guardian             
              


 






Home
This WeekCurrent Issue
Issue Archive


BlogsPolitics
Noise
Pixel Vision
Sex SF
Bruce Blog
Video Picks


GuidesNude Beaches
Feast
Cannabis Clubs
Goldies
Gift Guides
All Guides


ListingsAlerts
Music
Restaurants
Rep Clock
Stage
Film Reviews
Events
This Week's Picks
Venue Guide


Promo
Classifieds
About


 


NewsNews Features
Opinion
Editorials
Bruce Blog
Politics Blog


Arts & CultureTheater
Dance
Literature
Stage
Visual Art
Gamer
Trash
Pixel Vision
Video Picks Blog
Astrology
More


MusicMusic Features
Noise Blog
Nightlife
Music Listings


FilmFilm Reviews
Film Features
Film Listings
Rep Clock


Food & DrinkRestaurant Reviews	 
Food & Drink Features
Cheap Eats
Appetite


SexSex Blog
Sex Column


Best of the BayBest of the Bay 2010
Best of the Bay 2009
Best of the Bay 2008




 

Search












 






 


 


SFBG › Politics Blog ›  BART, PG&E targeted for protests
 


09.07.11 - 4:32 pm | Rebecca Bowe  | (3)


Print




Share




Green Party candidate Terry Joan Baum, seen here speaking out at a rally against police brutality, is headed to PG&E next. Courtesy Terry Baum for Mayor 



Protesters plan to descend upon downtown San Francisco on Sept. 8 and 9, as two separate groups of organizers are calling for mobilizations against the Bay Area Rapid Transit system (BART) and Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (PG&E). 
The Sept. 8 BART protest scheduled to take place during rush hour at Powell St. Station, which aims to take a slightly different approach than recent civil disobedience launched by the hacker group Anonymous, is dubbed "Spare the Fare Day." Demonstrators will once again express disapproval with BART police policies and censorship, but this time will attempt to "protest in a way that inconveniences BART administrators but not BART passengers," according to a Facebook post.
The PG&E protest, meanwhile, aims to denounce the utility giant "for its arrogance, incompetence and downright criminality" on the anniversary of the Sept. 9, 2010 San Bruno pipeline explosion, according to a Facebook announcement. 
While mayoral candidates City Attorney Dennis Herrera, Sen. Leland Yee, and Sup. John Avalos all publicly criticized PG&E after a federal investigation pinned the blame on the company for the deadly gas explosion, the demonstration outside PG&E's Beale St. headquarters is being called for by Green Party candidate Terry Joan Baum. (Mayor Ed Lee, meanwhile, recently took a battering from his opponents for praising PG&E for its donations to a youth group.)
The pipeline explosion leveled an entire neighborhood in San Bruno and killed eight people. Baum told the Guardian that as the anniversary of the tragic event neared, "I just felt, we have to observe this," so she organized a protest. "It just became very clear that the negligence that caused the blast was reaching levels that were criminal," she said, and "there should be a grand jury" convened to conduct a criminal investigation. "It's very clear that PG&E is no longer a responsible steward, and they need to be held responsible for their choices," she added. Baum said she was getting the word out mainly through Facebook, and had no idea how many people would attend.
Meanwhile, back at BART, a war of words is brewing around BART's so-called "free speech zones," in which the agency has said protesters may express themselves outside the fare gates but not within areas that passengers must purchase tickets to access. According to an online announcement, No Justice No Bart worked with activists engaged in other projects to formulate a "Catch-22" for BART. 
"Since BART has been very clear in insisting that we should “protest outside the fare gates”, they will have a choice," the No Justice No BART announcement states. "If we mobilize enough people, in order to keep riders moving into and out of the station, they will have to open the emergency exits and let folks ride for free, just as they do for all sorts of big sporting events, antiwar protests, and even past No Justice No BART protests," the post explains.
"On the other hand, if BART police decide to close the station, or otherwise interfere with or attack our protest outside the fare gates, we have made it clear that we are prepared to respond by moving the protest to other stations and/or inside the fare gates. If they choose this course of action, BART will be demonstrating that their 'free speech zones' are bullshit, and they will be taking responsibility for causing a major disruption to their passengers."
BART spokesperson Jim Allison told the Guardian that the agency's response to the next scheduled protest would depend on whether service was disrupted. "We don't have a problem with people protesting outside the fare gates, as long as it doesn't disrupt service and is done lawfully," he told the Guardian. "We're not going to arrest them for just showing up and expressing their opinions. We're not going to try to silence them."


BART
BART Police
Mayor's race
PG&E


Print





 

Comments




Thanks & PG&E Protest Rally Info Sites


 Thanks for the coverage Rebecca. Great report!
To see the time & place info for Friday's PG&E protest rally go to:
http://terryjoanbaum.com/
or, to the event's FaceBook page at:
http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=187510794652397
The PG&E HQ is near the San Francisco Embarcadero BART station. 
reply




Posted by Eric Brooks on Sep. 07, 2011 @ 7:36 pm






Full Text Of PG&E Protest Page


 PG&E Protest Rally!
Time:
Friday, September 9
12:00pm - 1:00pm
Location:
PG&E Headquarters
77 Beale Street
San Francisco, CA
Created By:
Terry Joan Baum for Mayor
Teresa Baum
Rose Shapiro
More Information:
No more San Brunos!
On the first Anniversary of the criminal San Bruno Blast, rally to protest PG&E for its arrogance, incompetence and downright criminality!
Please spread the word and help bring power back to the people.
www.terryjoanbaum.com
staff@terryjoanbaum.com
415-553-8847 
reply




Posted by Eric Brooks on Sep. 07, 2011 @ 9:15 pm






Rhetoric By Fringers Will Not Constrain BART or PG&E


 Thanks, Rebecca Bowe, for the latest on BART and PG&E demos.
You say:
“Demonstrators will once again express disapproval with BART police policies and censorship, but this time will attempt to ‘protest in a way that inconveniences BART administrators but not BART passengers,’ according to a Facebook post.”
That’s a step up the evolutionary scale. It’s too bad, though, that it took the demonstrators this long to figure it out. They have their work cut out for themselves in convincing BART commuters that they’re not a bunch of lunatics.
Granted, evolutionary adaptation is sometimes very slow. But species that can’t adapt quickly enough go extinct.
You say:
“The PG&E protest, meanwhile, aims to denounce the utility giant ‘for its arrogance, incompetence and downright criminality’…”
Most would agree that PG&E is guilty as charged ...
You say:
“the demonstration outside PG&E's Beale St. headquarters is being called for by Green Party candidate Terry Joan Baum.”
... However, rhetorical posturing by fringe candidates is not likely to solve anything. 
reply




Posted by Arthur Evans on Sep. 07, 2011 @ 8:48 pm



Post new comment



Your name: 



E-mail: 

The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.


Homepage: 



Subject: 



Comment: *


 





 




Related articles

Why doesn't BART just apologize?
Scenes from #opBART: video of the Civic Center protests
Waves of protest pound at BART, shutting down stations
 
 

Also from this author

Team AvalosAs a mayoral candidate, Sup. John Avalos casts himself as a movement builder
Caught in a RAT trapSFPD's expensive Robbery Abatement Team stings don't always snag the thieves they're out to get
Workin' at the car wash
 
 
 
 





 
 




 
 

Most Commented On







Team Avalos




The real Leland Yee




A lame attack on Avalos and Adachi




BART protests continue (VIDEO)




What the mayoral polls mean




Where's the "tax the rich" move in SF?




Doctor questions BART shooting




In case anyone was wondering about Willie Brown




Editorial: Mayor Ed Lee: Keeping City Hall safe for PG&E




Corporate vampires drink your blood



 
 
 

Recent comments

Time has taken its toll on the Vigilante troll - September 7, 2011
Vigilante - Republican TROLL - September 7, 2011
You're right Arthur, the - September 7, 2011
true - September 7, 2011
"Thanks............." is truly bizarro TROLL navel examination - September 7, 2011
Do not be so hard on - September 7, 2011
Poor, Poor, Poor, Poor,  TROLL - September 7, 2011
Thanks............. - September 7, 2011
Vote no for Ross - September 7, 2011
Full Text Of PG&E Protest Page - September 7, 2011
 
 




 
 
 








BEST OF THE BAY 2011






Bicicultura






Couscous with Al Qaeda






2011 Small Business Awards






Bike Party!






The essential SF bike map






2011 Cannabis Club Guide






Nude Beaches 2011






Best of the Bay 2009






BEST OF THE BAY 2010




 
 
 
 
 

 





Extras

Masthead/Contact Us
Submit an event
Privacy/Comment Policy
Jobs/Internships
ISSUE ARCHIVE
Advertise With Us



Connect

Facebook
Twitter
Flickr
RSS - Subscribe
Classifieds
Personals



Blogs

Politics
Noise: Music
Pixel Vision
SEX SF
Bruce Blog
All Blogs



 
 
 





