Fort Bragg mourns loss of Jere Melo - Mendocino Beacon





Mobile
Subscribe










Site
Web Search powered by   YAHOO! Search










Home






News

Local News
Financial
What's Happening
Weather
Horoscopes
Lottery Results
Soap Opera Recaps



Local Sports






Obituaries












Jobs






Classifieds






Cars

Performance Cars
Custom Cars
Custom Motorcycles
Future Cars




Real Estate

Rentals



Contact Us






 Announcements








Fort Bragg mourns loss of Jere Meloby Beacon StaffUpdated: 09/01/2011 08:38:33 AM PDTJere Melo, during a city council meeting. Staff photo.   Beacon Staff - 
Flags at Fort Bragg City departments flew at half-staff this week as a memorial to Jere Melo, former mayor, city council member and volunteer for numerous agencies and city committees. Melo was a long-time resident of Fort Bragg who worked as a forester for Georgia Pacific before it closed operations in 2002. He also worked as a private security contractor for Campbell Timberland Management and regularly conducted investigations into trespassing, illegal dumping and other environmental matters. 
According to Sheriff's Office reports, Melo was shot while conducting property management in an area adjacent to the Skunk Train railroad tracks, about four miles east of Fort Bragg. An associate with Melo was able to identify the shooter as Aaron J. Bassler, of Fort Bragg. The witness fled the area and Bassler was not found. 
Shortly after the shooting, the Sheriff's Office initiated a reverse 911 call to residents east of Fort Bragg which warned them to stay indoors. Officers from Fort Bragg, California Highway Patrol, CAL FIRE, Fish and Game were brought to the area to assist.
Sheriff's Field Operations Commander Kurt Smallcomb said Monday afternoon that around-the-clock searches were being conducted by the county SWAT team and members of various law enforcement agencies. While speaking with Smallcomb at the Sheriff's Fort Bragg substation, several deputies could be seen leaving the building in camouflaged gear.
"We get leads and we immediately act on them," he said, before pausing to take a cell phone call. 
Fort Bragg Police Chief Scott Mayberry said that until Bassler is apprehended, he remains in constant contact with School District Superintendent Don Armstrong. Mayberry said patrol was visibly increased in school areas. 
News of the incident swept through the community in just hours, partly propelled by a flurry of activity on Facebook.
Smallcomb said Melo died of multiple gunshot wounds ranging from the lower to upper torso. Asked if the wounds entered from the front or back, Smallcomb replied, "Both."
Bassler was last described as a white male adult, 6-feet-tall with a shaved head and wearing dark clothing. Sheriff's reports said he may be wearing body armor and carrying an assault rifle.
Allegations of pot
It's been widely reported that Melo was shot while encountering a pot farm in the forest east of Fort Bragg. When asked if a marijuana farm had been located where the incident occurred, Smallcomb confirmed there are numerous grows in that area of the forest. 
However, what agents found closest to the shooting location was an opium farm, Smallcomb said. When asked, he said it did not appear that the farm was being operated by numerous people. In searching the area, officers also did not find any weapons.
"It looks like an individual operation," he said, noting that a typical opium farm essentially resembles a flower garden, with rows of poppies. Users scrape the plant's seed pods and typically transfer the opium substance onto dried marijuana or rolling papers.
When asked if the area featured any type of living area, Smallcomb said officers found a bedding area on high ground, but no trailers, tents or structures. 
A city affected
City officials in all departments took time to provide support to employees, friends and family Monday morning.
Assistant City Manager Gary Garcia explained that employees at City Hall met to reflect and talk. City officials disclosed what they could about the incident, and offered employees support in their time of loss. 
"We took about 45 minutes to share our experiences and sadness," he said. Garcia said employees spoke of Melo's diplomatic and gentlemanly nature. "Everyone appreciated how he treated people."
A grief counselor was available at all city departments Tuesday. Garcia said City Manager Linda Ruffing was working with the Melo family on arrangements Tuesday. 
Fire Chief Steve Orsi noted Melo's involvement in the community, saying that Melo visited the department about twice a week. 
"He did so much for this town," said Orsi. "He will be sorely missed." Firefighters held a special meeting Monday night to talk and discussed possibilities for creating a memorial to Melo.
Here in the Advocate-News office, every staff member was affected by the news. 
Memorial services will be held at Timberwolf Stadium on Chestnut Street, Fort Bragg, Saturday, Sept. 10, at 2 p.m.
A possible connection?
It's been repeatedly suggested that there may be a connection between this incident and the Aug. 11 fatal shooting of Matthew Coleman. Coleman, a property manager for the Mendocino Land Trust, was gunned down near his vehicle off Highway 1 near Westport. When asked if there is a possible connection between the two shootings, Smallcomb said, "Anything is possible."
When asked if bullets taken from both victims matched, Smallcomb said that is "under close investigation."
From the train
Robert Pinole, general manager of the Skunk Train, said the train was passing through the area at the time when its conductor, along with several passengers, heard the sound of automatic gunfire. With no compelling reason to stop the train, the engineer continued to Northspur.
Pinole explained that the train is typically followed by a small rail speeder, operated by a fire patrol. The speeder operator was flagged down by a man who explained that he had been with Melo when a gunman opened fire on them. The operator radioed the Skunk Train Depot with the news. Due to the possibility that Bassler may have been near the tracks, Skunk Train officials were shouldered with protecting about 200 passengers. 
Pinole said the speeder was ordered back to Fort Bragg and a diesel locomotive was readied. 
When the train reached Northspur, it was held at the location. Northspur Depot is already equipped with food and facilities.
Meanwhile, the speeder returned and the other locomotive was sent to Northspur with deputies on board. 
Skunk Train personnel maintained communication with sheriff's officials. Pinole explained that it was originally thought the train could continue over the pass to Willits, assisted by the diesel locomotive. Buses were staged in Willits to bring passengers back to Fort Bragg. The plan was later dismissed and Willits School District and Mendocino Transit Authority buses were instead sent to Camp Mendocino. 
"When we got the green light' we went there and transferred the passengers on to the buses," he said, adding that all passengers were back at the Fort Bragg Depot by 7 p.m.
Those who heard the train whistle in the following days might have assumed the train had resumed its regular schedule. However, Pinole explained that the only passengers were law enforcement personnel.  
"We have been transporting agencies this whole time," Pinole said. "The easiest access to the area is by rail or helicopter."
He said while the train has endured some situations in the past, he had not encountered anything like this.
"If there's one thing I've learned, it's to give full disclosure to passengers," he said. "We let them know what was going on and that we were taking steps for their safety."
Pinole said passengers were compliant, calm and understanding. Following the incident, he has received an "overwhelming number of emails" thanking Skunk Train personnel for their open and astute handling of the situation. 
The train resumed its regular schedule Tuesday. 
The system's fault? 
Bassler is no stranger to law enforcement and his name appears 11 times in the Mendocino County Superior Court case index for criminal/non-traffic cases stretching back to 1994. Online, several commenters have perpetuated debates of whether or not the justice/mental health system is, in some part, to blame for the incident. 
Bassler was also arrested for DUI and resisting arrest Feb. 11, 2011 after crashing a pickup truck into the tennis courts at Fort Bragg Middle School. According to officers, Bassler's speed was estimated at over 80 mph on Pine Street before he missed the T-intersection at Harold Street and crashed. Photos submitted to the newspaper later showed middle school students, dressed for a school dance that evening, watching through the damaged chain link fence as the crashed truck was towed away.
According to court documents, the District Attorney's Office charged Bassler with six total counts: Two counts of obstructing or resisting a police officer, driving under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol, DUI with a blood alcohol content of .25 percent, reckless driving, child endangerment and vandalism.
A jury trial was not held; Bassler pleaded no contest to the DUI and one count of resisting arrest. Other counts were dismissed in exchange for the plea, according to court reports.
Bassler was sentenced to 45 days in jail, fined $2,491 with $100 in court fees, and given 60 months probation. The conditions of his probation included that he attend a first-offender DUI program for nine months, not to drive without proper license/insurance, submit to drug and alcohol testing and others.
While Aaron Bassler was in jail, his father, Jim Bassler, submitted a letter to the medical staff at the jail, which he provided to the Advocate-News. He asked them to perform a psychiatric evaluation of his son at the time.
"... I believe he needs a psychiatric evaluation and medical treatment for his psychiatric disorder, which appears to be schizophrenia," the letter read. "His behavior changed when he was 18 or 19 years old." 
The letter described symptoms of paranoia, bizarre delusions, a resistance to help, risk-taking, anger and hostility "out of proportion to the situation."
Bassler was also arrested by federal authorities in 2009 for throwing a fake bomb and drawings into the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco. The letter said he appeared to be acting out delusions involving space aliens and the Chinese.
"He was required to see doctors as part of his probation, but we don't know the outcome and evaluation because of his [medical] right to privacy," Bassler's father wrote. "It's apparent they weren't able to help him." 
Even the letter noted that the Feb. 11 arrest came a week after Chinese New Year, same as his arrest in San Francisco.
Two previous, separate counts in Fort Bragg of disorderly conduct: Under the influence of alcohol or drugs and being under the influence were dismissed through plea negotiations in September and October 2010. The second count against Bassler alleged that he was under the influence of oxycodone and marijuana at the time of arrest. Oxycodone is an opioid opium-derived pain-relieving medication synthesized from thebaine. 
According to the probation terms for the DUI sentence, he was not required to take part in drug or mental health counseling.
It's not yet known if an evaluation was conducted while Bassler was in jail and it's likely that information will not be released, based on the  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The HIPAA Privacy Rule establishes national standards to protect individuals' medical records and other personal health information.
The Advocate-News will continue to monitor developments as they occur. Updates regarding sightings or public safety issues will be immediately posted on our Facebook page.
Editor's note: The Beacon staff will continue its coverage of the Bassler investigation, including an interview wit Jim Bassler, his father, and others next week. If there is breaking news during weekday business hours, we will post on the website. Other postings will be placed on our facebook page.Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

POST YOUR COMMENTS: 



Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)Sheriff's Office connects Aaron Bassler in two murdersTwo separate homicide investigations continueFort Bragg mourns loss of Jere MeloKeeping a safe distance is always a safe betJesse D. Pittman(From the last 12 hours)No data currently available.Fort Bragg mourns loss of Jere MeloFOG rules coming soonKeeping a safe distance is always a safe bet  Jobs  Autos  Houses  Rentals  All Listings All Listings All Listings 2BD1BA  $850-$860 LEE KRAEMER... (Rentals)All Listings


Copyright Notice  |  
Privacy Policy  |  
Information  |  
Subscriber Services  |  
Site Map  |  
RSS  |  
 

    

MNG Corporate Site Map  |  
Weather Data © Copyright 2011 CustomWeather, Inc


Copyright 2011

MediaNews Group - Northern California Network











Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




