Oakland Raiders notebook: Blowout win against Denver Broncos last season affected both franchises - Inside Bay Area






Part of the Bay Area News Group
Email Newsletters | e-Edition







Subscriber Services | 
                                                Mobile | 
			Mobile Alerts | 
			RSS










Home 




News

Obituaries
Breaking News
Bay Area News
California
Crime and Courts
Data Center
Education
Hometown Heroes
Nation & World
Politics & Government
Special Reports
Traffic
Weather
Weird News
Earthquake Center



My Town

Alameda
Berkeley
Dublin
Fremont
Hayward
Livermore
Piedmont/Montclair
Oakland
Pleasanton
San Joaquin County
San Leandro 


Sports

Raiders
Columns
High Schools
Warriors
A's
Giants
49ers
Sharks
College
Cal
Stanford
Golf
Other Sports
Scoreboard
Buy Team Gear



Living

Food & Wine
Travel
Home & Garden
Health
Green Living
Pets & Animals
Family & Relationships



Entertainment

Celebrities
Horoscopes
Music
Restaurants
TV
Events
Museums & Galleries
Theater & Dance
Movies & DVDs
Books
Lottery
Comics
Puzzles & Games



Business

Columns
Real Estate
Technology
EconomySmall Business
Cars / Gas
Financial Markets
Legal Notices



Opinion

Columns
Blogs
Letters
Forums
Polls
Live Chats
Article Comments
TalkBack



Publications

Fremont Argus
Hayward Daily Review
Tri-Valley Herald
Alameda Times-Star



Help

FAQ
Widgets
Contact us
Archive search
Buy photos
Subscriber services








Shop |

Newspaper Ads Online




Classifieds |



Homes |

Apartments
Commercial Properties
Mortgage Rates
 


Jobs |

Post a Job
Post your Resume
Top Workplaces
Virtual Job Fair
Find A Job



Cars

Find A Car
Find A Dealer





















Site

Web Search by YAHOO!











Tweet






Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeOakland Raiders notebook: Blowout win against Denver Broncos last season affected both franchisesBy Jerry McDonald jmcdonald@bayareanewsgroup.comPosted: 09/07/2011 11:08:11 PM PDTUpdated: 09/07/2011 11:08:12 PM PDTThe genesis of the 2011 Raiders and Denver Broncos can be traced back to last Oct. 24.A 59-14 beat-down administered by the Raiders in Denver went beyond historical significance, helping shape the teams that will meet Monday night before a national television audience at Sports Authority Field at Mile High.The Raiders held a 14-0 lead before fans had settled into their seats, were up 24-0 at the end of the quarter and 38-7 at halftime.Coming as it did the week after a listless 17-9 loss to the 49ers that saw the Raiders fall to 2-4, it brightened the outlook of the team and its hopes for the remainder of the season."Last time we were there it was a big victory, one of the best in franchise history," free safety Michael Huff said. "So we're looking forward to going out there and play well." Oops.Huff apparently was unaware coach Hue Jackson, whose offense gained 508 yards and put seven touchdowns on the board, wants no part of reminiscing about past glories."It's a new year and I don't think their players are talking about last year," Jackson said. "The media's talking about last year. (The Broncos) are talking about this year." The game in Denver was the breakout game for Jackson's offense, which ended the season ranked second in rushing and helped the Raiders average 26.7 points per game, their most since 2002.The 59 points were a franchise record, as were the five rushing touchdowns and Advertisementeight touchdowns overall (the Raiders also scored on defense).By season's end, Jackson, having rebuilt the Raiders offense, was in line to replace Tom Cable, whose relationship with Al Davis had deteriorated and who had a two-year option on his contract.Broncos coach Josh McDaniels apologized to his team's fans after the loss, which dropped Denver to 2-5. It was considered the low point in his tenure, which ended Dec. 6 with the Broncos at 3-9.Denver quarterback Kyle Orton hasn't forgotten."We know what happened," Orton told Bay Area reporters by conference call. "We're not sitting here crying over spilled milk. What happened, happened. You can always learn something, and we're excited to get them back to Mile High and see what they've got." Denver's new coach, John Fox, was the coach in Carolina when the Raiders were cleaning up on the Broncos, but he noted for those involved in the game, "it would be fair to say it would be a rallying point." The Raiders' destruction of the Broncos didn't stop with the game in Denver. The Raiders won the rematch 39-23 in Oakland, putting up 502 yards of offense.In the two games against Denver, the Raiders had a 98-37 advantage on the scoreboard, outgained the Broncos 1,010-475 and out-rushed them 592-181.Fox has switched the defense from a 3-4 to a 4-3 and will emphasize a run-first offense as he did in Carolina.  The Raiders practiced a little over two hours in pads under two portable light standards. Speakers played both crowd noise and the "Monday Night Football" bumper music. Only three players did not practice. Wide receiver Louis Murphy and strong safety Mike Mitchell are probably out of the game. Tight end Kevin Boss did not practice and probably will have to practice Thursday to play in the opener.Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

• FAQ: Article commenting how-tos and tips






























Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)DNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseOakland Raiders season preview: Coach Hue Jackson embraces the bossBear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveOakland Raiders season preview: Facts, figures and projectionsTwo East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsFour arrested following Danville burglary(From the last 12 hours)Bear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveDNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseTwo East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsCrews battle smoky brush fire in East OaklandTammerlin Drummond: Prevention must be priority for crime summitFox Sports apologizes for Pac-12 video that allegedly mocked Asian...
Top Classifieds


Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




