Earhart auction collection gives intimate look at famous aviatrix | Oakland Local






























Login/Register
Username or e-mail: *



Password: *



Create new account
Request new password








Environment
Food
Development
Identity
Arts & Education
Justice
 




Earhart auction collection gives intimate look at famous aviatrix

Published on Wednesday, September 07, 2011Last updated on 08:02PM, Wednesday, September 7, 2011

 Amelia Earhart, 1937

In the photograph, the nonchalant pilot lounges, hands behind her head, in 1930s Oakland; but her spirit of nonconformity bespeaks the timeless spirit of our city itself. 
 Amelia Earhart spent the last few years of her life using Oakland as a base for her record-setting flights. It seems fitting, then, that a newly amassed collection of Earhart memorabilia will be auctioned off in Oakland.
 The significant assemblage will be up for auction this Sunday, Sept. 11, at Clars Auction Gallery in North Oakland. The articles on offer include unpublished photographs, valued between $600 and $800 a piece, and a pair of Luxor No. 6 flying goggles gifted to Earhart by her first aviation instructor, Neta Snook. The left goggle lens sports a crack, reportedly from Earhart’s inaugural crash while learning to fly with Snook in 1921. 
 The media attention lavished on the collection has gained Clars additional Earhart memorabilia. More photographs, including an inscribed 1917 portrait, and several four-by-five negatives were received on Monday from a consignor in Cleveland whose grandfather, James Meli, took the photos. A Nevada consignor also contributed an early studio portrait of Earhart. 
 Marcus Wardell, furniture and decorative arts specialist for Clars, expects that some items will end up in museums, others in collectors’ hands. It’s difficult to know how much they’ll go for. “It depends on the day and how much people want to spend,” Wardell said. He expressed his hope that certain items land in museums “where the public can view them.”
 In late August, Clars received a trove of mostly unpublished photographs from a Tracy, Calif., woman whose mother flew with Earhart. Diane Brown nearly tossed the manila envelope containing the valuable pictures while clearing a storage locker crowded with her late mother’s belongings - but something told her to examine the contents. 
 Brown discovered a series of photos that paints an intimate portrait of the lionized aviator. Many of the shots were taken in Oakland on March 17, 1937, the day Earhart left the city on her first attempt to circumnavigate the globe. In these, Earhart wears a plaid flannel with a bandana loosely knotted about the collar, dark trousers, a crocodile skin belt and leather jacket. Her short, boyish hair is wind-tussled; a smile reveals the slight gap between her front teeth. She wears no makeup; only fine wrinkles frame her eyes. 
 Her getup, and the sun-kissed look of her skin, give her a cowboy mystique - all the more poignant in a photo of her sitting astride the crown of her aircraft, the Lockheed Model 10 Electra, that would take her to the final frontier. 
  The famed aviatrix’s unsolved disappearance can overshadow her impressive biography. The public maintains a morbid fascination with her fate. The Earhart Project, for instance, is dedicated to plumbing the theory that Earhart’s fated flight crash-landed on an uninhabited atoll, where she lived as a castaway until her death.
 These newly public photographs, however, re-focus attention on the remarkable character of a woman who defied the role prescribed her by society. Earhart helped pioneer women’s aviation at a time when universal suffrage was still contested, and she used her example and celebrity to promote her feminist beliefs. 
 The auction is expected to draw more that 1,000 people. Half a million people at a time can also view the items online and place bids, both live and absentee. There will be telephone bidding, too.
 
If You Go
Amelia Earhart memorabilia auctionWhen: Sunday, Sept. 11, beginning at 10 a.m.Where: Clars Auction Gallery, 5644 Telegraph Ave. in Oakland
Details: (888) 339-7600, (510) 428-0100 or info@clars.com 



About Vanessa Rancano






 
Login or register to post comments











Identity


North Oakland


Amelia Earhart, Amelia Earhart auction, Amelia Earhart photographs, Clars Auction Gallery



 







Story Features





An impressive collection of Amelia Earhart memorabilia will be auctioned off on Sept. 11 at Clars Auction Gallery in North Oakland.




Unpublished photographs provide a candid look at the famous aviator.



 










Earhart and Fred Noonan reviewing map for circumnavigational flight, 1937







Earhart and Fred Noonan in the cockpit of the Lockheed Model 10 Electra







Earhart at barber 1937







Amelia Earhart, 1937



 







Related Content

Oakland gang injunction hearing fails to disqualify defense attorneys, judge to rule Feb. 3
Remembering Oscar Grant: A look back--and a look ahead
Report criticizes police actions in shooting that killed four officers, Chief Batts vows change
Oakland “Hip-hop band camp” combines youth artistic development, entrepreneurship( PHOTOS)
A timeline look at Oakland's gang injunctions as judge makes long-awaited decision
 



    









Join Our Mailing List

Sign up for Oakland freebies, discounts & exclusive stories 2X a month.
Email address:



Navigation

DONATE
Deals
Events
Place an ad
Submit a story
Oakland nonprofits
Oakland blogs
SeeClickFix
Forums
Blog archive
Mobile Site
 


Blogs





Give blood tomorrow, Sept 8


14 hours 41 min ago




YAK Films: Oakland's turf dancing Zeus/Jesus El showcases talent on streets of London


22 hours 45 min ago




Interested in owning a dog for a few days ... or a few weeks? (Community Voices)


1 day 4 hours ago



 


Recent comments





Oakland mayor issues new parking initiatives in response to Grand Avenue merchants' anger


Comments: 2 


1 day 2 hours ago




Interested in owning a dog for a few days ... or a few weeks? (Community Voices)


Comments: 3 


1 day 4 hours ago




Port of Oakland appointment process shakes up West Oakland (Community Voices)


Comments: 10 


1 day 5 hours ago



 


Follow us on:

Twitter
Flickr
YouTube
blip.tv
Vimeo
Facebook
 




Environment





Illegal street dumping in Oakland posing public health threat




Oakland Local welcomes Co-Soap, the Bay Area's newest worker co-operative




Right beneath our feet: Brownfields in West Oakland (Toxic Tour 2 series index)



 


Food





Build it in West Oakland and they will come (Community Voices)




Youth Greening Oakland wraps up summer program (Community Voices, PHOTOS)




Edible Education 101 promises a critical look at the food movement



 


Daily Image











    More daily images...  

 


Development





Give blood tomorrow, Sept 8




Oakland mayor issues new parking initiatives in response to Grand Avenue...




City seeks input on West Oakland development plans at Sept. 13 community...



 


Identity





Earhart auction collection gives intimate look at famous aviatrix




YAK Films: Oakland's turf dancing Zeus/Jesus El showcases talent on...




'Remember Them' to be unveiled today in Uptown Oakland - TODAY, Sept...



 


Arts & Education





G.U.R.L.S. ROCK holds second leadership summit this Saturday - SCHOLARSHIPS...




Mayor Quan's Newsletter:  Safe and Healty Oakland




Call for public art: City of Oakland submission deadline is Sept. 13



 












About
Staff
Trainings
Partners & Sponsors
Contact us
Advertise
Feedback
Mobile Site
 



 










 






