FOG rules coming soon - Mendocino Beacon





Mobile
Subscribe










Site
Web Search powered by   YAHOO! Search










Home






News

Local News
Financial
What's Happening
Weather
Horoscopes
Lottery Results
Soap Opera Recaps



Local Sports






Obituaries












Jobs






Classifieds






Cars

Performance Cars
Custom Cars
Custom Motorcycles
Future Cars




Real Estate

Rentals



Contact Us






 Announcements








FOG rules coming soonBy TERESA SHUMAKER Staff Writer -Updated: 09/01/2011 08:38:19 AM PDTStill capture of MCCSD's Steve Acker video of a sewer grease clog near Main and Lansing streets in Mendocino. This pipe is almost completely blocked due to grease build up.  
Expressions of curiosity and "yuck" were worn on every face in the room during a video presentation of grease deposits in the town sewers at Mendocino City Community Services District board meeting Monday night, Aug. 29. 
District personnel, led by Superintendent Mike Kelley and Plant Operator Steve Acker, cleaned 16,000 feet of sewer lines with the high pressure — 3700 PSI — jetter purchased earlier this year. Grease in the sewers was the primary issue; in some places the grease almost completely blocked the lines, creating a potential risk of sewage backing up into the streets, or worse, homes and businesses. 
Due to this increasing risk, MCCSD has developed a "Fats, Oils, and Grease" (FOG) program. One aspect is on education on how the system works and how residents or business employees can reduce their FOG impact on the lines. The other will be to introduce regulations that protect the systems from further damage, such as requiring food and beverage establishments to have grease control devices in place, reducing the impact on the sewer lines. 
Plans are to begin inspecting food and beverage establishments as early as October.
Agenda items
- Tom Kravis, owner of Hill House Inn and the Mendocino Hotel, had hotel manager Jamie Buckner ask the board to consider waiving late payment fees. According to Buckner, the payments were late because the entire accounting department walked out on the business. Board member Roger Schwartz asked, "Who picks up the mail?" Buckner replied, "The accounting department did, until they left." 
Buckner has since then been picking up the mail and said she contacted MCCSD as soon as she found out the hotels were past due. District Secretary Jodi Mitchell said Buckner has been working with MCCSD to ratify the situation. 
There was concern that waiving the penalty would set a precedent that could be abused. The late payment fee is 10 percent of the monthly charged amount. Given Kravis has been a client in good record for nearly 25 years, and this is the first failure to pay in his history, the board was divided on granting leniency. 
Finally, the board decided, under these unique circumstances, to reduce the fee from 10 to five percent, with the understanding it's a one-time reprieve and stressed the need for better management of their mail. 
- The board voted to disconnect two residents, who are grossly overdue on their payments. In both incidents, the people living in the residence are not the owners. 
Schwartz asked if there is a procedure to inform renters before the situation gets to such drastic measures. Mitchell responded that they mail letters to notify property owners of late payments and that if not paid, disconnection follows. Schwartz said he felt some attempt to inform the people living in the house should be made, since a letter might go to the owner and not the renter, who is more inclined to solve the issue due to living in the house. He felt tenants should be notified before this point. Mitchell said during a phone call on Tuesday, Aug. 30, that at this point policy procedures have no guidance for such an action. No board decision or directive was officially given to change it.  
- Keith Linden was moved to full-time status after a vote by the board. Linden, who has worked at MCCSD through school work programs since summer 2009, passed his Grade 1 certification which allows him to work without supervision and work weekend watch shifts. 
- Kelley announced that no drought measures are expected through October, which starts the new rainfall metering year. He also mentioned the recycle water measured just above the upper limits of safe toxic levels and he expects the water will be ready to transfer to the K-8 School for ground-watering purpose next month. 
- The board decided they do not have enough information yet to direct to Bruce Fournier, investment representative with Edward Jones, to put MCCSD funds in bonds and asked Kelley to obtain more information. 
- Discussion continued about the possible acquisition by eminent domain of property on Palette Drive. The board expressed concern about the easements and how much land is available to build on. Kelley said he could do a rough in-house land survey and have a map ready for the board by next month. 
The next board meeting will be Monday,  Sept. 26. 
Editor's note: If interested in seeing an excerpt of the video, please visit our facebook page.Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

POST YOUR COMMENTS: 



Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)Sheriff's Office connects Aaron Bassler in two murdersTwo separate homicide investigations continueFort Bragg mourns loss of Jere MeloKeeping a safe distance is always a safe betJesse D. Pittman(From the last 12 hours)No data currently available.Fort Bragg mourns loss of Jere MeloFOG rules coming soonKeeping a safe distance is always a safe bet  Jobs  Autos  Houses  Rentals  All Listings All Listings All Listings 2BD1BA  $850-$860 LEE KRAEMER... (Rentals)All Listings


Copyright Notice  |  
Privacy Policy  |  
Information  |  
Subscriber Services  |  
Site Map  |  
RSS  |  
 

    

MNG Corporate Site Map  |  
Weather Data © Copyright 2011 CustomWeather, Inc


Copyright 2011

MediaNews Group - Northern California Network











Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




