Truck slams into Concord backyard - Inside Bay Area






Part of the Bay Area News Group
Email Newsletters | e-Edition







Subscriber Services | 
                                                Mobile | 
			Mobile Alerts | 
			RSS










Home 




News

Obituaries
Breaking News
Bay Area News
California
Crime and Courts
Data Center
Education
Hometown Heroes
Nation & World
Politics & Government
Special Reports
Traffic
Weather
Weird News
Earthquake Center



My Town

Alameda
Berkeley
Dublin
Fremont
Hayward
Livermore
Piedmont/Montclair
Oakland
Pleasanton
San Joaquin County
San Leandro 


Sports

Raiders
Columns
High Schools
Warriors
A's
Giants
49ers
Sharks
College
Cal
Stanford
Golf
Other Sports
Scoreboard
Buy Team Gear



Living

Food & Wine
Travel
Home & Garden
Health
Green Living
Pets & Animals
Family & Relationships



Entertainment

Celebrities
Horoscopes
Music
Restaurants
TV
Events
Museums & Galleries
Theater & Dance
Movies & DVDs
Books
Lottery
Comics
Puzzles & Games



Business

Columns
Real Estate
Technology
EconomySmall Business
Cars / Gas
Financial Markets
Legal Notices



Opinion

Columns
Blogs
Letters
Forums
Polls
Live Chats
Article Comments
TalkBack



Publications

Fremont Argus
Hayward Daily Review
Tri-Valley Herald
Alameda Times-Star



Help

FAQ
Widgets
Contact us
Archive search
Buy photos
Subscriber services








Shop |

Newspaper Ads Online




Classifieds |



Homes |

Apartments
Commercial Properties
Mortgage Rates
 


Jobs |

Post a Job
Post your Resume
Top Workplaces
Virtual Job Fair
Find A Job



Cars

Find A Car
Find A Dealer





















Site

Web Search by YAHOO!











Tweet






Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeTruck slams into Concord backyardBy Rick HurdContra Costa TimesPosted: 09/07/2011 10:18:51 PM PDTUpdated: 09/07/2011 10:18:52 PM PDTCONCORD -- Nestor Chavez had just settled in to watch a television program in the living room after finishing up some work in the backyard of his family's house at the corner of Grant Street and Gill Drive. The clock had just clicked past 6 p.m. when his serenity was shattered in an instant."Just this huge, violent, crashing sound," a shaken Nestor said. "At first, I thought two cars must've crashed out front. I went to look, and there's a truck in our backyard."The 18-year-old and his father, Hector, were fortunate. The red Toyota pickup truck had knocked down a fence and a telephone pole, interrupting electricity to the neighborhood, but it stopped short of the house, and neither Nestor nor Hector received a scratch.The man driving the truck was detained by police while they investigated whether he was driving under the influence, Concord police Sgt. Robert Brady said. Police did not release his identity Wednesday, and Brady did not know when toxicology results would be complete. Nobody else was in the truck."Somehow, the driver lost control," Brady said. "We're looking into what may have caused that to happen."PG&E crews remained at the crash site Wednesday evening and did not have an estimate on when power would be restored.Nestor Chavez said that after the initial impact, the driver tried to leave the scene. But he and his father ran out to the car and blocked the driver's exit while trying to convince him Advertisementnot to go anywhere."Right around that time, the truck stalled," Nestor Chavez said. "We weren't going to let him go anywhere. He kept saying, 'It's OK, I'll pay for everything. It's OK.' It's like, 'Dude, it's not OK, you just drove into our yard.'"The truck rammed the fence head-on, leading neighbors to wonder if the driver had gone too fast through a sharp turn that leads from Grant Street to Gill Drive."I've lived here about a year and a half, and this is the third time there's been some kind of wreck here, because of people driving too fast," said Rafael Ochoa, who lives across the street. "Sometimes, they try to do doughnuts. I've told the police that all they have to do is camp out here (in a patrol car), and they'd be ticketing people all day long."Barbara McKinnon, another neighbor, said people drive through the area "like they're trying to escape. It's become very dangerous."That's a point that literally hit home for the Chavezes."Thankfully, I did my yard work already," Nestor Chavez said. "If I'd waited an hour ..."Rick Hurd covers public safety. Contact him at 925-945-4780 and follow him on Twitter at Twitter.com/3rdERH.Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

• FAQ: Article commenting how-tos and tips






Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)DNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseOakland Raiders season preview: Coach Hue Jackson embraces the bossBear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveOakland Raiders season preview: Facts, figures and projectionsTwo East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsFour arrested following Danville burglary(From the last 12 hours)Bear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveDNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseTwo East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsCrews battle smoky brush fire in East OaklandTammerlin Drummond: Prevention must be priority for crime summitFox Sports apologizes for Pac-12 video that allegedly mocked Asian...
Top Classifieds


Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




