California lawmakers inch toward more openness in their daily schedules - San Jose Mercury News





Part of the Bay Area News Group















eEdition / Subscriber Services
Mobile | 
				Mobile Alerts | 
				RSS













HOME




NEWS

breaking news
obituaries
crime and courts
bay area news
data center
science / environment
earthquakes
politics / government
california
nation / world
special reports
education
traffic
weather
weird news



BUSINESS

real estate
green energy
special reports
financial markets
personal finance
venture capital drive / automotive
press releases



TECH

news
opinion
sectors
companies
personal tech



SPORTS

49ers
raiders
giants
a's
sharks
warriors
high schools
colleges
cal
stanford
sjsu
scu
quakes
sabercats
golf
other sports
scores / stats
buy team gear



ENTERTAINMENT

celebrities
restaurants
movies
television
music
horoscopes
comics
puzzles / games
video games
lottery
events
theater / dance
museums / galleries
books 


BAY AREA LIVING

food & wine
health
home & garden
travel
family & relationships
fashion & style
pets & animals
green living
faith



OPINION

columns
editorials
letters
blogs
discussion boards
web votes
article comments
live chats



MY TOWN

san jose
los gatos
saratoga
cupertino
sunnyvale
campbell
peninsula
central coast
pacifica
san mateo county
milpitas
fremont
alameda county



HELP

contact us
site map
faq
start / stop paper
advertising
buy photos
ethics policy
past articles









SHOPPING

newspaper ads online
special sections




CLASSIFIED




REAL ESTATE

apartments
commercial properties
mortgage rates
list a home




CARS

find a car
find a dealer



JOBS

post a job
post your resume
top workplaces
virtual job fair 
find a job














Site

Web Search by YAHOO!


























Tweet






Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeCalifornia lawmakers inch toward more openness in their daily schedulesBy Karen de Sákdesa@mercurynews.comPosted: 09/07/2011 04:19:04 PM PDTUpdated: 09/07/2011 10:41:10 PM PDTRelated StoriesJun 5:Public denied access to California lawmakers' appointment calendarsMay 5:California legislators insist their calendars should be secretkdesa@mercurynews.comIn response to repeated requests by the Bay Area News Group and Associated Press, a growing number of California lawmakers are bucking their leadership and revealing or pledging to reveal their daily calendars.The moves suggest cracks are forming in the Legislature's long-standing practice of denying access to records that in many other states are publicly available. Under the ironically named "Legislative Open Records Act" of 1975, state lawmakers are exempt from the California Public Records Act, which requires far more transparency from local officials.In an effort to reveal who influences legislation, this newspaper -- together with the AP and the California First Amendment Coalition -- has asked every state lawmaker for their calendars. The requests were promptly turned over to the rules committees in each house, where in May they were first rejected based upon "privacy, security and legislative privilege" concerns. A second round of requests to all Assembly members was similarly denied last month.But since then, two Assembly members have disclosed their meetings, and two more -- San Jose Democrats Jim Beall and Nora Campos -- have vowed to do so if they get the go-ahead from a newly convened task force studying government transparency.Last month, prompted by a spat with Assembly Speaker John Perez, Assemblyman Anthony Portantino, a Democrat from AdvertisementPasadena, revealed his January-June 2011 calendars to the AP, detailing meetings with school officials, auto industry lobbyists and health advocates. After the release, Jon Waldie, chief administrative officer of the Assembly -- who had earlier denied calendar requests -- said it was Portantino's "prerogative" to do so. Now, Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Twin Peaks, has revealed his January-August calendars because the "people asked for it." Daily outtakes include regular attendance at Capitol Bible Study sessions and meetings with his tea party supporters."It is incumbent upon those in government to be diligent about restoring the people's faith," Donnelly said. "The people have a right to know how their money's spent. They have a right to know who we meet with."Donnelly and Shannon Grove, R-Bakersfield, also revealed their complete office budget to the AP, after Portantino did. The revelations resulted from a spiraling feud between Portantino and Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat, about funds lawmakers receive for staff and expenses.According to the Washington, D.C.-based Sunlight Foundation, the public is increasingly demanding to know who consumes lawmakers' time.Foundation spokeswoman Gabriela Schneider praised the California legislators who released their calendars."Voluntary disclosure is a great first step because it allows journalists and the public alike to see if they are meeting with interests within the district ... or is it just the same big donors and corporations who are getting all their time?" she said. But having "a few good leaders is not the same as codifying the mandatory disclosure of lobbying activities."California lawmakers are now embroiled in the feverish final week of the legislative session. Lobbyists teem in the hallways of the state Capitol, wooing votes and working their insider magic.But the news organizations' efforts to reveal such influences continue to be rejected. A Sept. 2 letter signed by the Assembly Rules Committee's deputy administrator, Lynda Roper, cites a 1991 state Supreme Court ruling over access to the governor's calendars, even though Gov. Jerry Brown and his predecessor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, have granted access to their calendars. California open-records experts said the two-decade-old Times Mirror case dealt specifically with executive privilege."Legislators are not the governor, and the Times Mirror decision is not an apt fit for legislators' calendars," said Terry Francke, general counsel to the open-records group Californians Aware.Francke said the Assembly's argument for privacy protections "strains credulity," since most who have access to lawmakers are not average citizens. "Lobbyists are well-paid professionals, not shrinking violets," he said. "Their names, employers and faces are on the public record, as are the bills they have spent considerable time working on." Indeed, a Mercury News investigation revealed lobbyists' invasive role in lawmaking. The newspaper examined thousands of bills sponsored by special interests, many written and pushed to passage by lobbyists.In a small step toward revealing such access, Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner, D-Berkeley, now heads the transparency task force, which could eventually decide whether to make the lawmakers' calendars public. Assembly members Beall and Campos are urging the committee to allow the calendar release."My work as a public official should be open to the public because I'm doing the public's business," Beall said. Campos -- who earlier in the year told a reporter she would not reveal her calendar because of security concerns -- has now changed her position. In a Sept. 2 letter, Campos wrote that as a San Jose City Council member she provided access to her schedule. And now that she is in the statehouse, Campos said, "I am fully supportive of providing public access to my calendar."Campos stated she now believes Skinner's committee can improve transparency "without compromising safety."Three other California lawmakers -- Sen. Leland Yee, D-San Francisco, and Assembly members Rich Gordon, D-San Mateo, and Susan Bonilla, D-Concord -- also pledged to reveal their calendars. But they later said that the house leadership blocked them from doing that.In defense of that decision, Nathan Barankin, spokesman for Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, D-Los Angeles, said his chamber would release calendars "in a hot second" if members were convinced constituents would use them. "But the concern is constituents are not the ones who'd be interested -- it's lobbyists." He said "sophisticated observers" could interpret meetings and gain leverage for their lobbying strategies, making special interests all the more powerful: "By publishing the calendars, it offers a great strategic advantage away from the Senate and individual senators to those who are paid to influence the Senate." But some citizens don't buy that argument."It is wrong and outrageous that they won't reveal them," said Peter Catalano of Campbell, who regularly writes his elected officials. "They are our public servants, and they work for us."Contact Karen de Sá at 408-920-5781. Associated Press writer Juliet Williams contributed to this report.Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

• FAQ: Article commenting how-tos and tips








California News

Amazon.com cuts California sales tax deal in stunning turnaboutPerry and Romney square off at Republican debateRomney, Perry don't let facts get in the wayGOP pipeline bill would block safety reformsOrbiter's photos offer trip down Apollo memory laneCalifornia lawmakers inch toward more openness in their daily schedulesNevada shooting victims loved history, fitness, cupcakesVideo:  Gumby unrecognized in holdup attempt 








 Latest headlines


View RSS feed


 Related content

Earthquakes  | State budget | Same-sex marriage 
Searchable database: Public employees' salaries 





























Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)DNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseSan Jose: Three female Vietnamese coffee shop workers cited for...Newest iProduct coming to Cupertino: Apple Campus 2Orbiter's photos offer trip down Apollo memory laneFirefighters gain ground against Texas wildfireSanta Cruz deputy city attorney killed on Maui vacation(From the last 12 hours)San Jose: Three female Vietnamese coffee shop workers cited for...Bay Area military families reflect on the reason so many enlisted:...Breakfast-on-the-go for teen school daysNewest iProduct coming to Cupertino: Apple Campus 2Job openings hit three-year highA decade after 9/11, Bay Area emergency responders still not on same...
Top Classifieds



Copyright ©  - San Jose Mercury News

Place an Ad | 
About Our Ads | 
      Help/Contact | 
	   Site Map | 
	   Advertise | 
 Home Delivery | 
	  Copyright | 
	   Privacy Policy and Terms of Use | 
	  About MediaNews Group | 
	   RSS | 
	   Find San Jose jobs | 
Ethics Policy | About Bay Area News Group | 
	  





  












Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




