Oakland mayor issues new parking initiatives in response to Grand Avenue merchants' anger | Oakland Local






























Login/Register
Username or e-mail: *



Password: *



Create new account
Request new password








Environment
Food
Development
Identity
Arts & Education
Justice
 




Oakland mayor issues new parking initiatives in response to Grand Avenue merchants' anger

Published on Wednesday, September 07, 2011Last updated on 01:21AM, Wednesday, September 7, 2011

 

In response to angry merchants along Grand Avenue who say they are frustrated by the city's parking policies, Oakland Mayor Jean Quan has now called for a series of new actions connected to the city's parking and enforcement measures.First, Quan said, she is asking City Administrator Deanna Santana to clarify the city policy on charging in city parking lots and garages.Quan also wants, "To rescind any parking tickets to disabled parkers in city lots and garages for the last two weeks and to refrain from ticketing parkers with legal disabled placards until the policy is clarified and properly noticed."Quan found out from Grand Avenue merchants that Oakland has recently begun a new policy of charging and issuing tickets to disabled placard holders if they don't pay when parking in city lots.Late last week, the mayor was caught up in the unexpected dust up with local merchants when she took a public stroll down Grand Avenue, near Lake Merritt. It was supposed to be a friendly walk in the shopping district to highlight Small Business Month for local media. Instead, Quan found herself answering a series of questions around the city's parking policies.The press briefing began quiet enough at Ford's Fine Furniture as Quan chatted brightly with some merchants, but it took a sharp sour turn as Quan, trailed by television news cameras and print reporters, was confronted at Walden Books by several Grand Avenue business owners unhappy with a plethora of city parking rules.The merchants surrounded Quan and peppered her with questions and comments about Oakland parking regulations and enforcement measures. In addition to the issue around disabled parking, the mayor heard about aggressive enforcement actions, arrogant parking officers and policies that discourage residents from parking in the district.The television cameras that were invited to the event began filming the conflict in earnest. This was clearly not the promotional event the mayor wanted.Soon the events took on a circus atmosphere on the normally quiet street, as more business owners came out of their stores to watch the action. Shoppers also stopped and stared, occasionally offering their own thoughts and feelings about the city's parking rules. Most were not fans of the city's parking rules.Grand Avenue has always lead the way on business anger over parking rules and enforcement - it was ground zero in a debate two years ago about extending parking hours - a fact not lost on Councilwoman Pat Kernighan who was also caught up in the storm.In a press release issued after the confrontation, Quan apologized for the city's actions around parking for the disabled.“I am disappointed that an attempt to be more consistent in the citation of vehicles was not handled with more public notification and consideration and (I) intend to put in place administrative policies that will prevent future situations like this,” she said.The mayor also said that the city is in the process of using new grants to begin a citywide parking study to recommend an overall policy that addresses strategies for parking areas, rates and times.Quan is calling on the resurrection of the Parking Task Force including  representatives from the Oakland Merchants Leadership Forum and neighborhood leaders from across the city.The mayor urged anyone with a legal disabled placard who received a ticket on a city parking lot for nonpayment between Aug. 22 to Sept. 1 to contact Noel Pinto, Parking Manager, at (510) 986-2688 or npinto@oaklandnet.com.



About Jennifer Inez Ward


A writer and photographer, Jennifer Inez Ward has been documenting Oakland neighborhoods for more than 10 years. A graduate of UC Berkeley’s Graduate School of Journalism, she focuses on the uniqueness and beauty of everyday life in a city that is too often overlooked for its treasures and pleasures. Throughout the years, Jennifer has had the honor of showcasing her work at a number of venues, including a permanent loan of images that are displayed on the front wall of Barnes and Nobel in Jack London Square. Jennifer is a featured artist documented in “Images of America: Black Artists in Oakland."



 
Login or register to post comments











Pamela Drake commented at Tue, 6 Sep at 9:39pm  

Noel Pinto is the poster boy for out-of-touch bureaucrats, and this is not the first unilateral decison he has made without consulting the actual policy makers.  But not all the problems of small businesses in Oakland can be fixed by making parking cheap, probably very few; and there was no excuse for attacking the first mayor who has come out to the community to try and promote an ailing district in the way this mayor has.  
Login or register to post comments
 









Jonathan Fleming commented at Tue, 6 Sep at 9:54pm  

Small business has enough struggles as it is right now, the parking policy of the city of Oakland is very anti buisness and it hurts hardworking business owners. For those that run a business making payroll every month is a challenge, but when you have career politicians that don't have to meet a payroll, at times, they appear out of touch with everyday people that run businesses.I don't feel the merchants have attacked the Mayor, they are hurting and need a city to hear, understand and take action. It is common sense, we don't need to have further studies to realize that certain policies are anti-business in the city of Oakland.  If you look at the models of other cities, they are in partnership with the business owners. Oakland is at war with the business community in the wrong way!Let's find creative ideas and solutions that can help. Small business are in parternship with Oakland and Oakland should treat the local merhants with more respect.  The Merchants should be commended and applauded for standing up to an unjust way of doing business. I support them 1000%!  Of course, this is not the only problem, but they need help! 
Login or register to post comments
 











Development


Grand Lake, Lake Merritt


Mayor Jean Quan, Oakland City Council, parking, Pat Kernighan



 







Story Features





Grand Avenue merchants say the city's aggressive parking policies discourage shoppers from visiting district.




Quan has called for a number of initiatives around the city's parking policies.



 







Related Content

Oakland Latina startups booming, but face sustainability challenges
Haiti Relief: How Oaklanders can help
Can Tony Smith turn around Oakland public schools? (Living In Debt - Part 2)
Oakland stepping up for taxes (City Hall Scene)
Could Lakeshore "Complete Streets" plan improve Oakland's walking, biking, traffic?
 



    









Join Our Mailing List

Sign up for Oakland freebies, discounts & exclusive stories 2X a month.
Email address:



Navigation

DONATE
Deals
Events
Place an ad
Submit a story
Oakland nonprofits
Oakland blogs
SeeClickFix
Forums
Blog archive
Mobile Site
 


Blogs





Give blood tomorrow, Sept 8


14 hours 34 min ago




YAK Films: Oakland's turf dancing Zeus/Jesus El showcases talent on streets of London


22 hours 38 min ago




Interested in owning a dog for a few days ... or a few weeks? (Community Voices)


1 day 4 hours ago



 


Recent comments





Oakland mayor issues new parking initiatives in response to Grand Avenue merchants' anger


Comments: 2 


1 day 2 hours ago




Interested in owning a dog for a few days ... or a few weeks? (Community Voices)


Comments: 3 


1 day 4 hours ago




Port of Oakland appointment process shakes up West Oakland (Community Voices)


Comments: 10 


1 day 5 hours ago



 


Follow us on:

Twitter
Flickr
YouTube
blip.tv
Vimeo
Facebook
 




Environment





Illegal street dumping in Oakland posing public health threat




Oakland Local welcomes Co-Soap, the Bay Area's newest worker co-operative




Right beneath our feet: Brownfields in West Oakland (Toxic Tour 2 series index)



 


Food





Build it in West Oakland and they will come (Community Voices)




Youth Greening Oakland wraps up summer program (Community Voices, PHOTOS)




Edible Education 101 promises a critical look at the food movement



 


Daily Image











    More daily images...  

 


Development





Give blood tomorrow, Sept 8




Oakland mayor issues new parking initiatives in response to Grand Avenue...




City seeks input on West Oakland development plans at Sept. 13 community...



 


Identity





Earhart auction collection gives intimate look at famous aviatrix




YAK Films: Oakland's turf dancing Zeus/Jesus El showcases talent on...




'Remember Them' to be unveiled today in Uptown Oakland - TODAY, Sept...



 


Arts & Education





G.U.R.L.S. ROCK holds second leadership summit this Saturday - SCHOLARSHIPS...




Mayor Quan's Newsletter:  Safe and Healty Oakland




Call for public art: City of Oakland submission deadline is Sept. 13



 












About
Staff
Trainings
Partners & Sponsors
Contact us
Advertise
Feedback
Mobile Site
 



 










 






