New Beginnings internship program helps at-risk youth get a fresh start - ContraCostaTimes.com




Part of the Bay Area News Group







Contra Costa Times
 



eEdition / Subscriber Services


Mobile|
Mobile Alerts|
RSS











Shop

Newspaper Ads Online




Classifieds




Homes

Apartments
Commercial Properties
Mortgage Rates
 


Cars

Find A Car
Find A Dealer



Jobs

Post a Job
Post your Resume
Top Workplaces
Virtual Job Fair
Find A Job





Home




News

Obituaries
Crime & Courts
Bay Area
Breaking News
California
Data Center
Education
Elections
Environment
Nation & World
Science
Growth
Politics & Government
Special Reports
Traffic
Weird
Weather



My Town

Antioch
Brentwood
Concord
Contra Costa County
Danville
El Cerrito
Hercules
Lamorinda
Martinez/Pleasant Hill
Montclair/Piedmont
Oakley
Pittsburg
Richmond
San Ramon
Walnut Creek/Alamo



Sports

Raiders
High School Sports
Warriors
49ers
Giants
Athletics
Sharks
Colleges
Cal
St. Mary's
Stanford
Golf
Other Sports
Scoreboard
Buy Team Gear



Business

Real Estate News
Technology
Consumer News
Small Business
Economy
Cars / Gas
Financial Markets
Legal Notices



Entertainment

Comics
Games
Celebrities
Horoscopes
Movies & DVDs
Restaurants
Music & Nightlife
Museums & Galleries
Theater & Dance
Events
Television & Radio
Video Games
Books
Lottery



Living

Food & Wine
Family & Relationships
Home & Garden
Travel
Teens
Pets & Animals
Green Living
Health




Columns




Opinion

Blogs
Letters
Forums
Polls
Article Comments
Live Chats


Help

Advertise
Archives
Buy Photos
Copyright
FAQ
News Staff
Site Map
Stop / Start Paper
Widgets

























Site

Web Search by YAHOO!













 

Tweet







Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeNew Beginnings internship program helps at-risk youth get a fresh startBy Angela WoodallOakland TribunePosted: 09/07/2011 05:59:43 PM PDTUpdated: 09/07/2011 08:43:44 PM PDTClick photo to enlarge
Josetta Hairston,19, left, and Brijuanae Bandy,20, right, get help from Sheriff deputy Chris Mears with life jackets on board the Alameda County Sheriff boat docked at Grand Marina in Alameda, Calif., on Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. A group of young adult summer interns enrolled in the New Beginnings program are ending their internship with a tour of the bay on the Sheriff boat followed by an end of the summer celebration. New Beginnings is an innovative Alameda County Initiative that prepares youth for the future through education and job skills development. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
«12345»Adrienne Bergum is a 20-year-old who might have spent the summer working at a grocery store or some other job that paid minimum wage and did little to inch her toward the career she envisioned, working with teens.Instead, the Hayward woman earned $12 an hour and helped launch a series of meetings for parents about gang awareness, health, fitness and other issues that affect their children in Exercise as Medicine, a program run by the Deputy Sheriff's Activity League of Alameda County. She might not have had the chance without a county summer internship program, New Beginnings, which is the kind of program advocates want to expand for at-risk young adults who are most likely to live in poverty. But it is the kind of program jeopardized by budget cuts. Alameda County has already had to compensate for federal and state funding cuts for fiscal year 2011-12. Advocates fear more are on the way.Summer programs, foster care, child welfare and training are essential to supporting young people in a state that ranks among the lowest in education spending, said the president of Children Now, Ted Lempert. "If we don't focus on our young people and invest in our young people," he said, "what on earth kind of future are we looking at?"The summer internship is an extension of the core New Beginnings program started in 2007 as a way to support foster care youths who aged out of the system with few options and dismal work prospects.For two Advertisementmonths, 18- to 24-year-olds were paired with county agencies. They reported once a week for a seminar at an office building on 14th Street in Oakland. The topic of the Aug. 16 meeting was finance. Several in the stuffy conference room stared at the floor while the more boisterous ones tore into a consumer scam involving camera financing with all the authority of a Consumer Reports researcher before moving on to avoiding banking fees. But few raised their hands when asked who had ever written a check.  Some of the interns have aged out of foster care, have a police record or have a child without the income to support themselves, let alone a family.Bergum, dressed in a boyish oversize jersey and jeans, is on probation after an incident two years ago involving a fight and mutual restraining orders. The punishment was especially harsh for a shy 18-year-old with no record. But as the name of the program implies, she and her fellow interns are starting over in some way, trying to make up for something that would hold them back without extra help. No matter how sharp their minds, they have further to climb to be successful, especially during a recession in which they will compete with older, better educated and possibly wealthier candidates. In Alameda County, 15 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds don't have a high school diploma and more than 18 percent live in poverty. The number is even higher in Oakland.  With the jobless rate in Northern California in the double digits -- 17 percent in Oakland -- they need more education and experience to compete."They can't live in the Bay Area on entry-level wages or $8 an hour," said Rose Hansen, a counselor at the Hayward Adult School, which is part of the consortium of organizations involved in the New Beginnings program.The alternative is more poverty, according to the Annie E. Casey Foundation's Kids Count initiative. Twenty percent of all U.S. children live in poverty and nearly half are on the edge, the organization reported in August. Children who grow up in poverty are likely to end up being poor, become teen parents and get arrested. And they are less likely to be employed. If only one-third of high school dropouts were to earn a high school diploma, federal savings in reduced costs for food stamps, housing assistance, and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families would amount to $10.8 billion annually."You can pay on the front end or the back end," said David Muhammad, head of the county probation department. "The back end is far more costly, far more punitive and far more negative." One shooting costs the community as much as $1 million, factoring in court and incarceration costs, he said, citing the far end of the spectrum. The New Beginnings program cost $2,900 per intern, including the staff cost, as well as a pool of money for field trips, transportation stipends and work clothes. Politicians, Muhammad said, "are increasing the spending but cutting effective programs." Bergum's internship wrapped up several weeks ago. Since then, she has started her second semester at Chabot College studying psychology with a minor in business. She said the activity league wants to keep her but has to find the money first."There is still hope," Bergum said. "They don't want to lose the momentum."  But even if she doesn't stay there, she said she shook off some of her shyness and learned to take problems more in stride. Bergum said she even reconsidered her career choice."I hope going to school will open my mind to more options." Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	


• FAQ: Article commenting how-tos and tips








News»

West Contra Costa school district to retire old state loan, keep two campuses openAmazon.com cuts California sales tax deal in stunning turnaboutOakland Raiders notebook: Blowout win against Denver Broncos last season affected both franchisesMark Purdy: Are you ready for 'What's Your Deal' Part II?Perry and Romney square off at Republican debateTruck slams into Concord backyardRomney, Perry don't let facts get in the waySan Francisco 49ers notebook: With Michael Crabtree in pads, full offense practices together at last 
























Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)DNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseData Center: Alameda and Contra Costa Pension DatabaseBear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveCounty to pay $11.7 million to Clayton family for Marsh Creek Road...Two East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsPinole police investigate shooting death(From the last 12 hours)Retirement race as Contra Costa workers take last shot at pension...Bear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveBrentwood schools put new focus on fruitFight night outside the DA's office in MartinezCollege send-offs change sibling relationships
Top Classifieds




Home | Classifieds | Real Estate | Jobs | Cars |  Place an Ad | 
Advertise | 
Find Walnut Creek Jobs | Site Map | RSS  


© Bay Area News Group | Terms of Use/Privacy | Contact Us | Help | 
About our Ads | About Bay Area News Group



 











Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




