San Francisco 49ers notebook: With Michael Crabtree in pads, full offense practices together at last - Inside Bay Area






Part of the Bay Area News Group
Email Newsletters | e-Edition







Subscriber Services | 
                                                Mobile | 
			Mobile Alerts | 
			RSS










Home 




News

Obituaries
Breaking News
Bay Area News
California
Crime and Courts
Data Center
Education
Hometown Heroes
Nation & World
Politics & Government
Special Reports
Traffic
Weather
Weird News
Earthquake Center



My Town

Alameda
Berkeley
Dublin
Fremont
Hayward
Livermore
Piedmont/Montclair
Oakland
Pleasanton
San Joaquin County
San Leandro 


Sports

Raiders
Columns
High Schools
Warriors
A's
Giants
49ers
Sharks
College
Cal
Stanford
Golf
Other Sports
Scoreboard
Buy Team Gear



Living

Food & Wine
Travel
Home & Garden
Health
Green Living
Pets & Animals
Family & Relationships



Entertainment

Celebrities
Horoscopes
Music
Restaurants
TV
Events
Museums & Galleries
Theater & Dance
Movies & DVDs
Books
Lottery
Comics
Puzzles & Games



Business

Columns
Real Estate
Technology
EconomySmall Business
Cars / Gas
Financial Markets
Legal Notices



Opinion

Columns
Blogs
Letters
Forums
Polls
Live Chats
Article Comments
TalkBack



Publications

Fremont Argus
Hayward Daily Review
Tri-Valley Herald
Alameda Times-Star



Help

FAQ
Widgets
Contact us
Archive search
Buy photos
Subscriber services








Shop |

Newspaper Ads Online




Classifieds |



Homes |

Apartments
Commercial Properties
Mortgage Rates
 


Jobs |

Post a Job
Post your Resume
Top Workplaces
Virtual Job Fair
Find A Job



Cars

Find A Car
Find A Dealer





















Site

Web Search by YAHOO!











Tweet






Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeSan Francisco 49ers notebook: With Michael Crabtree in pads, full offense practices together at lastBy Cam Inman cinman@bayareanewsgroup.comPosted: 09/07/2011 09:38:42 PM PDTUpdated: 09/07/2011 09:38:42 PM PDTThe 49ers offense finally looked complete Wednesday -- unless you were expecting the acquisition of former Jacksonville Jaguars quarterback David Garrard.All offensive players practiced in their red-and-gold uniforms for the first time under coach Jim Harbaugh, whose father, Jack, was on hand to witness the preparation for Sunday's season opener.Completing that full-squad offense was wide receiver Michael Crabtree, and he showed no signs of trouble with his twice-broken foot while running routes during media access at the start of practice. "Good to see him out there running around," quarterback Alex Smith said. "He's extremely talented and will help us a ton." Although Crabtree began lightly practicing last week, he was not in full pads then, nor did he have a full squad around him. (Tight end Vernon Davis was tending to a family matter.)Harbaugh said he will use this week to evaluate Crabtree's potential role in Sunday's opener. As for who'll start at the wide receiver spot opposite Joshua Morgan, Harbaugh coyly termed both Braylon Edwards and Ted Ginn Jr. "starter caliber."All players have done well grasping the new scheme, said Harbaugh, who wouldn't reveal how much of the playbook is ready to go after the post-lockout cram session."They're almost college-like type of guys, just from their enthusiasm and good nature and want to be successful," Harbaugh said. "They've got that gleam in their eye. They've Advertisementworked extremely hard in the classroom, too, to understand what we're trying to do, what our intent is to this game plan."As for any plan to pursue Garrard, Harbaugh declined to comment if the 49ers are interested, and he instead offered a blanket response that they would do anything to improve the team. In contrast, Seahawks coach Pete Carroll claimed the Seahawks' quarterback situation is set with starter Tarvaris Jackson, who's coming off two frustrating seasons as Brett Favre's understudy with the Minnesota Vikings.Harbaugh said of Jackson: "Whenever you get that quarterback with the threat and the ability to run and throw, that's a dynamic that scares you to death."As for the 49ers' quarterback, Smith said he's excited for a "huge" opener to kick off his seventh season."I don't want to get into comparing different years. You try to press delete on those and move forward," Smith said. "I feel really good with where we're at, though. We had a great camp and got a lot done. It's time to really narrow that focus to Sunday."Smith added that he is not sure which coach will relay calls into his helmet on the field. He noted that Harbaugh handled that task for the first time in last week's exhibition finale at San Diego, where Smith completed 8 of 10 passes for 45 yards. Linebacker Patrick Willis said it's "very important" the 49ers don't fall into another early hole, such as last season when they lost their first five en route to a 6-10 campaign."We know we have the guys here in this locker room to have a great team and winning season. But it all starts with consistency," Willis said. "Until the day we get that, it's going to be hard to win games and go anywhere."Teams that win their season opener are twice as likely to reach the playoffs than those that lose, according to the NFL. Of the 45 Super Bowl winners, 37 won their opener.  Defensive end Justin Smith will start his 156th consecutive game Sunday, a streak that will climb to the fifth-longest among active players. He'll move up a notch as a result of Peyton Manning sitting out the Indianapolis Colts' opener Sunday because of a neck injury, snapping Manning's remarkable run of 208 straight regular-season starts. The last quarterback to start for the Colts before Manning: Harbaugh, in a 39-28 loss at Minnesota on Dec. 21, 1997. "That was a long time ago," Harbaugh said. "That (streak) is amazing. That's just a testament to the greatness of Peyton Manning. My goodness." Cornerback Shawntae Spencer (hamstring) practiced while safety Dashon Goldson (knee) was limited to individual conditioning. Quote of the day: "I wouldn't say that I'm friends with any other head coaches in the National Football League, other than my brother (Ravens coach John Harbaugh). We're trying to beat them." -- said Harbaugh, in regards to questions about his relationship with the Seahawks' Carroll. Print  
									      Email  
							 Font ResizeReturn to Top  	    
	

• FAQ: Article commenting how-tos and tips






























Most ViewedMost E-Mailed(From the last 12 hours)DNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseOakland Raiders season preview: Coach Hue Jackson embraces the bossBear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveOakland Raiders season preview: Facts, figures and projectionsTwo East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsFour arrested following Danville burglary(From the last 12 hours)Bear behind the wheel, takes Pleasanton family's Prius for a driveDNA evidence, surveillance footage led to arrest in Michelle Le caseTwo East Bay hospitals fined for medical errorsCrews battle smoky brush fire in East OaklandTammerlin Drummond: Prevention must be priority for crime summitFox Sports apologizes for Pac-12 video that allegedly mocked Asian...
Top Classifieds


Privacy Policy
  |  
Terms of Use
  |  
MNG Corporate Site Map
  |  
Copyright




