Localized Appreesh: Religious Girls  | San Francisco Bay Guardian





 
 




               
                San Francisco Bay Guardian             
              


 






Home
This WeekCurrent Issue
Issue Archive


BlogsPolitics
Noise
Pixel Vision
Sex SF
Bruce Blog
Video Picks


GuidesNude Beaches
Feast
Cannabis Clubs
Goldies
Gift Guides
All Guides


ListingsAlerts
Music
Restaurants
Rep Clock
Stage
Film Reviews
Events
This Week's Picks
Venue Guide


Promo
Classifieds
About


 


NewsNews Features
Opinion
Editorials
Bruce Blog
Politics Blog


Arts & CultureTheater
Dance
Literature
Stage
Visual Art
Gamer
Trash
Pixel Vision
Video Picks Blog
Astrology
More


MusicMusic Features
Noise Blog
Nightlife
Music Listings


FilmFilm Reviews
Film Features
Film Listings
Rep Clock


Food & DrinkRestaurant Reviews	 
Food & Drink Features
Cheap Eats
Appetite


SexSex Blog
Sex Column


Best of the BayBest of the Bay 2010
Best of the Bay 2009
Best of the Bay 2008




 

Search












 






 


 


SFBG › Noise ›  Localized Appreesh: Religious Girls 
 


09.06.11 - 11:16 am | Emily Savage  | (2)


Print




Share




So sparkly: Oh those Religious Girls. 



Localized Appreesh is our weekly thank-you column to the musicians that make the bay. Each week a band/music-maker with a show, album release, or general good news during those seven days is highlighted and spotlit. To be considered, contact emilysavage@sfbg.com.
Let's get this out of the way: the boys behind Religious Girls are neither pious, nor female. They are however, worthy of your time, ear drums, and ultimately, devotion. I mean, the band once described itself as "spider-jazz clusterfuck" ---- which is why I'm naming Religious Girls our first Localized Appreesh (you'll see a different local music act in this slot every week). The Oakland-based arty noise trio bestows upon listeners a synth-y wave of gurgling keyboard, waterfalling beeps, and crashing drums. The vocals are repetitive, tribal, soothing; for the most part lacking actual words. Like a more ambient Battles.
If you want to see Religious Girls with Born Gold and Part Time for free* this week, then scroll down below the quick and dirty bio:

Need to know: Religious GirlsYear and location of origin: Summer 2008 in Oakland, Calif.Band name origin: It was originally a song name, then we decided it was better than the old band name... Destroy TokyoBand motto: Shred til we Ded / Cry me Out / Q-ZARDescription of sound in 10 words or less: We just say yes to everything we like about music. [ed. - nice, way to use precisely 10 words] Instrumentation: Nick: drums / vocals / live loops; Chris: highend / keys / vocals / samples; Guy: lowend / keys / auxdrums / samples.Most recent release: Midnight Realms 12" EP released by Everybodies Stomached (LA) and Echolalic Records(Seattle) in July 2011Best part about life as a Bay Area band: Playing too many showsWorst part about life as a Bay Area band: Playing too many showsFirst cassette record/cassette tape/or CD ever purchased: Nick: Space Jam soundtrackMost recent record/cassette tape/CD/or Mp3 purchased/stolen from the Web: The Weekend - House of BalloonsFavorite local eatery and dish: Bake Sale Betty's fried chicken sandwich
Live at the Bay Bridged's Phono Del Sol:


















*Win two guest list spots for the Religious Girls/Born Gold (formerly  Gobble Gobble)/Part Time show (presented by Epicsauce.com) this Thursday, Sept. 8 at the Knockout.  Just go to our Facebook page and comment on the link to this post with your favorite Religious Girls  song today before 6 p.m. We'll choose a winner at random. [contest is now closed].
Religious GirlsWith Born Gold and Part TimeSept. 8, 9 p.m., $6The Knockout3223 Mission, SFwww.theknockoutsf.comwww.epicsauce.com
 


Band of the Week
Localized Appreesh
Music


Print





 

Comments




Religious Girls at Bhopal


 Religious Girls at Bhopal Saturday the 10th
https://www.facebook.com/pages/Bhopal/224725550897689?v=wall 
reply




Posted by Guest on Sep. 06, 2011 @ 8:00 pm






Religious Girls play with


 Religious Girls play with NinjaSonik at Bhopal in Oakland Saturday the 10th. Search "Bhopal oakland" on Facebook for the details. 
reply




Posted by Bhopal on Sep. 06, 2011 @ 8:22 pm



Post new comment



Your name: 



E-mail: 

The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.


Homepage: 



Subject: 



Comment: *


 





 




Related articles

Butthole Surfers, 400 Blows keep it weird/bloody at Regency Ballroom
Thee Oh Sees will release another LP; San Francisco rejoices
Kreayshawn gets some lady love at Slim's
 
 

Also from this author

Keep it raw
Music Listings
Maximum Consumption: A culinary tribute to Serge Gainsbourg
 
 
 
 





 
 




 
 

Most Commented On







Team Avalos




The real Leland Yee




A lame attack on Avalos and Adachi




BART protests continue (VIDEO)




What the mayoral polls mean




Where's the "tax the rich" move in SF?




Doctor questions BART shooting




In case anyone was wondering about Willie Brown




Editorial: Mayor Ed Lee: Keeping City Hall safe for PG&E




Corporate vampires drink your blood



 
 
 

Recent comments

Time has taken its toll on the Vigilante troll - September 7, 2011
Vigilante - Republican TROLL - September 7, 2011
You're right Arthur, the - September 7, 2011
true - September 7, 2011
"Thanks............." is truly bizarro TROLL navel examination - September 7, 2011
Do not be so hard on - September 7, 2011
Poor, Poor, Poor, Poor,  TROLL - September 7, 2011
Thanks............. - September 7, 2011
Vote no for Ross - September 7, 2011
Full Text Of PG&E Protest Page - September 7, 2011
 
 




 
 
 








BEST OF THE BAY 2011






Bicicultura






Couscous with Al Qaeda






2011 Small Business Awards






Bike Party!






The essential SF bike map






2011 Cannabis Club Guide






Nude Beaches 2011






Best of the Bay 2009






BEST OF THE BAY 2010




 
 
 
 
 

 





Extras

Masthead/Contact Us
Submit an event
Privacy/Comment Policy
Jobs/Internships
ISSUE ARCHIVE
Advertise With Us



Connect

Facebook
Twitter
Flickr
RSS - Subscribe
Classifieds
Personals



Blogs

Politics
Noise: Music
Pixel Vision
SEX SF
Bruce Blog
All Blogs



 
 
 





