Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Tuesday, September 13, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home

ANDREW DeMILLO, Associated Press

                                                                                Updated 10:35 a.m., Sunday, September 11, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







			In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains of her friend's home that was destroyed by wildfires, in Bastrop, Texas. Scorching temperatures, strong winds and dry vegetation are turning Texas wildfires into fast and furious dangers that hop from place to place within hours, even minutes, and give residents little time to flee. Now it’s likely to get worse.
							Photo: Eric Gay
										/ AP
								In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains...






			Volunteer fireman Ryan Mills douses hot spots with water on a wildfire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011. Texas is suffering its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. The Bastrop-area fire has been the largest of nearly 190 wildfires the forest service says erupted this week, leaving nearly 1,700 homes statewide in charred ruins, killing four people and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.
							Photo: LM Otero
										/ AP
								Volunteer fireman Ryan Mills douses hot spots with water on a...






			A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.
							Photo: Eric Schlegel - POOL
										/ AP
								A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif.,...






			Tommy Ratto, a fire fighter from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., team cleans up a hot spot after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011. Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.
							Photo: Eric Schlegel - POOL
										/ AP
								Tommy Ratto, a fire fighter from the Lassen National Forest in...






			A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011 after the destructive wildfire.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.
							Photo: Eric Schlegel - POOL
										/ AP
								A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif.,...






			A volunteer firefighter is blurred by heat waves rising from the burning remnants of a barn destroyed in a wildfire which broke out Friday, Sept. 9, 2011, west of Lilbert, Texas, in a wooded area north of Farm Road 343. Officials had not determined if the fire was an off-shoot of the larger Angelina River Bottom Fire, which burned more than 6,500 acres in Nacogdoches and Cherokee counties in Texas before being brought under control.  MANDATORY CREDIT
							Photo: The Daily Sentinel, Andrew D. Brosig
										/ AP
								A volunteer firefighter is blurred by heat waves rising from the...


















































 







News









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




Page 1 of 1


BASTROP, Texas (AP) — After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos got the news Saturday: His house had burned down in the blaze.But Gaydos — who has been living at a hotel with his wife, two children and father since fleeing the fires nearly a week ago — still can't return to his neighborhood to see what is left of his home.Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting the wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots have kept thousands of residents, including Gaydos, from returning home.Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to know when they could return to their homes — or what remains of them — in the Bastrop area, located about 30 miles east of Austin.Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said officials hope to get other residents back as soon as possible, but he didn't know how long that would take."This is day seven, tensions are high," McDonald said.Texas is in the midst of one of its worst wildfire outbreaks in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.A 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties about 40 miles northwest of Houston has burned for several days, destroying about 60 homes and forcing some people to evacuate. The forest service has said about half the fire was behind containment lines and no towns or cities were threatened. Most homes in the area are scattered in the forest, ranchland and in small subdivision clusters.In Bastrop, officials said Saturday the fire was about 50 percent contained after almost a week of burning. Though residents were anxious to get to their neighborhoods, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said authorities need to be certain they are safe before residents would be allowed back. Residents from one 700-acre area that includes about two dozen homes were allowed to return home Saturday, but other areas remained evacuated as crews worked to put out potentially dangerous hotspots."Everybody hang in there and we'll get you back home as soon as possible," Pickering said.Fire crews continued battling hot spots on Saturday, but didn't expect major wind gusts through the night.But authorities also cautioned that the toll from the fires could get worse. McDonald said he expected the number of homes destroyed by the fire to increase from the current 1,400 tally as more assessments are completed. A spokesman for the team of state, local and federal agencies also said the number was expected to rise."We haven't even hit our toughest area," McDonald said Saturday afternoon, adding that teams haven't had a chance to go in and "count those houses or get a tally because of the amount of heat that's in the area."In the meantime, residents are staying wherever they can — makeshift shelters at churches, friends' and relatives' homes, even cars in nearby parking lots."There are some who are actually picking out apartments," said Sean McGahan, pastor of New Beginnings Church in Bastrop. "If you haven't already started, you're probably behind the curve."Next week, Gaydos and his family will move into a mobile home in Bastrop while they decide whether to rebuild. Before finding out Saturday on a fire department website that his home had been destroyed, Gaydos spent much of the past week so worried about his home that he couldn't sleep."You wake up in the middle of the night and you can't go back to sleep," Gaydos said. "I've been going to work early just because I'm already up."Gov. Rick Perry's office said families whose homes have been destroyed will receive seven-day hotel vouchers from a nonprofit organization as well as assistance from the state.The vouchers were welcome relief for Russell Horn, who said the $104 nightly hotel bill for him, his wife and two boys had become too costly. The 32-year-old electrician said their home had been destroyed by the fire and he had only been able to get out wearing an undershirt and shorts."There aren't too many places you can go just wearing that," Horn said.On Friday, White House officials announced that President Barack Obama had signed a federal disaster declaration for Texas. The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.Perry unexpectedly canceled plans Saturday to visit areas hit by the Bastrop wildfire and hold a news conference because of "logistical issues" with him arriving on time, but he was in Austin and keeping in regular contact with officials on the wildfires, his spokeswoman said.___Andrew DeMillo can be reached at www.twitter.com/ademillo







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home
Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting the wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots have kept thousands of residents, including Gaydos, from returning home.

Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to...






































Latest Slideshows








 Miss Universe 2011


 2011 NFL cheerleaders


 Texans 34, Colts 7



 
 











Latest News Headlines














			
				Record heat hits Houston, little rain likely





			
				Miss Universe sees crown a path to peace





			
	Perry stands his ground in GOP debate





			
	Houston killer should be spared, prosecutor says





			
	Clear winners  stumbles and oddities





 











Latest News











Record heat hits Houston, little rain likely
Broiling, record heat is likely today in the Houston region as a strong ridge of high pressure remains settled above the area.

No rain...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Sundance CInemas sets November open date
Sundance Cinemas has set a Nov. 23 date for its grand opening at the downtown Bayou Place location formerly occupied by the Angelika. Rob...


 

 







Latest Sports










Associated Press, Jack Dempsey
					

Janikowski ties FG mark, Raiders top Broncos 23-20
DENVER - Sebastian Janikowski tied an NFL record with a 63-yard field goal and the Oakland Raiders beat the Denver Broncos 23-20...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













