
	Anheuser-Busch Sending More Than 70,000 Cans of Water to Assist Wildfire Relief Efforts in Texas | Cision Wire








Subscribe 



        Client Login

Home About CisionWire Packaging & Pricing Tips & Tools Contact

Cision



        US/Global


DenmarkFinlandGermanyUS/GlobalNorwayPortugalSweden



 New Users    Media Members    Why CisionWire   




View:
 All news  News by industry  News by company  Pictures  Videos






Advanced search >


Press release
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc




Press Room


About


Press releases

2011



Financial reports


Videos


Pictures


Subscribe by RSS.


Subscribe by email


Contact.


            
    
     

                             
                        
                    



	                9/8/2011 4:29 AM EST
                

Anheuser-Busch Sending More Than 70,000 Cans of Water to Assist Wildfire Relief Efforts in Texas


	            September 7, 2011 ST. LOUIS – There’s a need for drinking water in areas of Texas affected by wildfires, and Anheuser-Busch is contributing to the relief effort. The brewer is providing 2,940 cases of drinking water — or 70,560 cans — for use by residents affected by wildfires that have resulted from a severe drought. A truck loaded with water left the company’s brewery in Cartersville, Ga., yesterday and is scheduled to arrive tomorrow at the local Budweiser wholesaler in Austin, Brown Distributing, 8711 Johnny Morris Road. A second shipment will be sent to Silver Eagle Distributors in Cypress, 8660 N. Eldridge Parkway, arriving later this week. Both wholesalers will work with relief organizations to get the water where it’s needed. “People in Texas are in need of fresh drinking water, and this is one way Anheuser-Busch and our local wholesalers can help,” said Peter Kraemer,vice president of Supply for Anheuser-Busch. In April the brewer sent more than 100,000 cans of water to West Central Texas to areas affected by wildfires, and last week the company sent more than 400,000 cans to assist with some of the hardest hit areas of the East Coast affected by Hurricane Irene. So far this year Anheuser-Busch has donated more than 1.7 million cans of water for U.S. disaster relief. Since 1988, Anheuser-Busch has donated more than 70 million cans of drinking water following natural and other disasters. Helping communities cope with disasters has been an Anheuser-Busch tradition since 1906 when Adolphus Busch made a donation to victims of the San Francisco earthquake. Today, in addition to providing monetary support, Anheuser-Busch packages fresh drinking water and donates it to emergency relief organizations for distribution to those in need.



 
                            Twingly Blogsearch 
                        








Send as email
Print this page

Tweet









© Cision
Terms of usage
  |  
Privacy Statement
  |  
Cookies
  |  
About Cision
  |  
Content Policy
  |  
Contact


        >







