 Fine Contractor






 Selecting A Good Contractor
Social Stuff:
													







HOME
 













Sep 13, 2011
Todd Normandy
No Comments

QA Graphics Introduces Partner Program




ShareThis



                          Email


                          PDF


Print




 

 
Real-Time Energy Display
                    By joining QA Graphics’ partner program, clients will be able to differentiate their business and increase revenue.
Ankeny, IA (PRWEB) September 13, 2011 
 QA Graphics®, an industry-leading provider of graphic design services for the building industry, is proud to introduce a new partner program.
QA Graphics has worked with a number of system integrators, architects, engineers, building contractors, and others involved in the building industry, developing a variety of products and services to fit their needs.   The new partner program will allow clients to take advantage of this collection of capabilities as a whole. They can now capitalize on QA Graphics’ award-winning products and design services, including the Energy Efficiency Education Dashboard®, graphic outsourcing services, HVAC symbol library, drafting services and custom design services like 3D design, interactive applications and more. 
By joining QA Graphics’ partner program, clients will be able to differentiate their business and increase revenue by reselling QA Graphics’ Energy Efficiency Education Dashboard (EEED), an interactive application used to illustrate building performance and provide education about an organization’s sustainable initiatives.  It will compliment their existing services and can be offered to their clients as an additional benefit. 
Clients may join the partner program for a low annual fee, and then will receive access to resell QA Graphics’ products and services, with the ability to meet ROI on just one Energy Efficiency Education Dashboard project annually.   The program is structured with three tiers based on expected revenue goals, with each tier providing increased discounts and benefits.  The program will not require a large time investment from partners.  QA Graphics will provide the resources needed to effectively promote the Energy Efficiency Education Dashboard, will be available to assist with sales presentations, and will manage the project completion process once an opportunity is awarded. 
Deep discounts will also be applied towards other design services including graphic outsourcing, drafting services, custom design services and the BAS Symbol Library.  So in addition to increased revenue, partners will receive benefits to aid them with their internal design needs, saving them time and money.
Benefits of QA Graphics’ partner program include:
*Significant product/service discounts: Deep discounts off retail pricing allow room for mark-ups and increased ROI. 
*In-depth sales and technical training: Sales and technical staff will receive comprehensive training to ensure understanding of QA Graphics’ products and services. 
*Access to marketing materials and sales tools:  A collection of sales and marketing resources, including interactive demonstrations, graphic examples and literature to effectively promote the Energy Efficiency Education Dashboard or other custom design services.
*On-going sales and technical support:  Dedicated sales support and access to in-depth training guides, a knowledge base and answers to FAQs. 
To discuss becoming a member of this new partner program, contact QA Graphics at sales(at)qagraphics(dot)com or 515-965-3403. 
About QA Graphics     
QA Graphics is an innovative graphic development company specializing in graphic outsourcing for the building automation industry.  The company is an industry leader in the design of BAS graphics, symbol libraries, HVAC graphic development, user interfaces, and the award-winning Energy Efficiency Education Dashboard® used to educate about building performance and sustainable initiatives.  QA Graphics also provides a comprehensive offering of interactive services including interactive content, 3D design/animation, multimedia and other creative solutions.  Visit http://www.qagraphics.com  to learn more.
###
 
                                                            Share:
























Sep 13, 2011
Tim Sanders
No Comments

XL Insurance introduces coverage for construction subcontractor default
NEW YORK—XL Insurance has announced the release of a new coverage product designed to protect general contractors from financial losses when their subcontractors fail to live up to their contracts.

Advertisement
In a statement released Tuesday, the New York-based underwriter said the product, ConstructAssure, was developed to mitigate costs associated with missed deadlines and project delays, profit losses, reputational damage and strain among business relationships that can befall a construction company when one or more of its subcontractors defaults on or fails to perform contracted services.
“Risk management is more critical than ever in the current construction market,” Jason LaMonica, vp and profit center head of XL Insurance’s subcontractor default business, said in the statement. “With this new market alternative, we are well-equipped to help contractors protect their profits, improve business practices with subcontractors and keep their project on time and on schedule.”
Direct, indirect costs covered
The company said in its release that ConstructAssure provides coverage for direct and indirect costs associated with subcontractor default, with limits of liability up to $50 million per loss and $150 million in the aggregate. The coverage includes loss control and claims management services, as well as guidance on selecting subcontractors and other best practices in project management. ConstructAssure is targeted for general contractors and construction managers with at least $75 million in annual subcontracting costs, the statement said. 
XL Insurance is the global insurance underwriting operation of the Dublin-based XL Group P.L.C.
 
Page 1  |  3




Sep 13, 2011
Carl Kenner
No Comments

Zambooki Connects Contractors with Homeowners for Repairs and Rebuilding.
Tuscaloosa, Alabama (PRWEB) September 01, 2011
A new website, Zambooki, allows home and business owners to list jobs under the categories: lawn  garden, interior, exterior and disaster relief. These categories include landscaping, painting, flooring, roofing, plumbing and every kind of home repair, remodeling and rebuilding. Home and business owners then select how long the job will be posted. During this time contractors place estimates on the job using information provided by the home and business owners including pictures of the workspace. Home and business owners then receive an email at the end of the period with all of the estimates listed along with contractor reviews and proof of insurance and certifications. It is then the home or business owner’s decision of whom to select to do the job they submitted. Once the decision is made, Zambooki emails the contractor and the contractor contacts the client. This eliminates phone book use followed by numerous calls and hours on the phone and saves the contractors from having to spend time on the road just to give estimates.
Many people have been attracted to the site due to it being free for all users. Tuscaloosa founders Heath Hendrix and Jacob Jones were inspired by the tornado outbreak on April 27, which left parts of the city of Tuscaloosa unrecognizable. They hope this will allow Zambooki to help people such as victims of the storms across the nation. All the categories may be related to storm damage such as interior or exterior work needed due to flooding or wind damage from tornadoes and hurricanes.
The idea for Zambooki, which was launched on July 24 2011, began when Hendrix wanted a nursery painted for his newborn and could not find price listings online. This should no longer be a problem for Hendrix and the users of the site. Homeowners are also encouraged to “window shop” for an idea of prices for upcoming projects also. There is no commitment made to a job when you post it. Site visitors have the luxury of selecting a job or simply getting an estimated price and contractor in mind for the future.     
Zambooki is growing and expanding the areas with professional contractors nationwide.
“We want to build a truly free market for professional contractors to connect to home and business owners”
###
Read the full story at http://www.prweb.com/releases/2011/9/prweb8761242.htm




Sep 13, 2011
Mike Tanner
No Comments

Will OFPP’s new guidance be used to take jobs from contractors?

Will OFPP’s new guidance be used to take jobs from contractors?

By Matthew Weigelt 
Sep 12, 2011

“Critical function” is now the controversial term as agency officials interpret new regulations on what work only federal employees should be doing and could be used to increase the insourcing of contractor jobs.
“Inherently governmental function isn’t the big problem,” said Robert Burton, former deputy administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP). “It’s the broad category called ‘critical function.’”
A new policy letter from OFPP defines critical function as work that is “necessary to the agency being able to effectively perform and maintain control of its mission and operations.” Beyond that, the letter tells agency officials to decide case-by-case if work should be done by their own employees or by contractors.
Related story:
OFPP keeps classic definition of fed-only work

If a contractor is doing the work, agencies must have employees who know the job and who would be able to manage the contractor who is doing the work, according to the policy letter, which was released officially Sept. 12.
The policy holds an agency responsible for making sure it has an adequate number of positions filled by federal employees with appropriate expertise and experience. Those employees need to understand the agency’s requirements and be able to formulate alternative options, if needed, while also monitoring any contractors supporting the federal workforce, thr letter said.
“The more important the function, the more important that the agency have internal capability to maintain control of its mission and operations,” the letter stated.
However, Burton said officials can argue that any job is critical to meeting their agency’s mission and also decide the adequate number of federal employees they need to do it, under this policy.
“We’re missing the elephant in the room,” said Burton, now a partner at the Venable law firm. “What this policy letter does is institutionalize insourcing in the federal government.”
He said these critical functions are the jobs agencies are already insourcing, often to the detriment of small businesses.
The policy letter goes into effect Oct. 12, and, because it came from the OFPP, it is more than guidance. It will be added to the Federal Acquisition Regulation. These will be rules to live by.
The term “critical function” came from the fiscal 2009 National Defense Authorization Act, which told the administration to draw up a single definition of “inherently governmental function” and also lay out criteria for a critical function. OFPP drafted the definition in 75 pages.
As deputy administrator from 2001 to 2008, Burton said the issue isn’t necessarily with writing the policy. It’s how the agency officials apply it.
“The challenge of so much of this is the interpretation,” he said.
Stan Soloway, president of the Professional Services Council, said the policy must have clear guidance for interpreting the intent correctly. He has raised concerns in the past about making agencies prove that their choice to insource work is a good deal.
“As such, it is vital that clear guidance be given to the agencies on how to conduct their cost comparisons to ensure the right outcomes for the American taxpayer,” he said Sept. 9 in a statement.
Burton also said the OFPP missed two important points in the policy. It should have required agency officials to talk with small businesses about the effects that insourcing would have . And it should have required agencies to share their cost comparison data with, at least, the company who faces the loss of its work.
It’s often too late to use the Freedom of Information Act to get the data, he said. By then, the insourcing is completed.
 
 
About the Author


                    Matthew Weigelt is a senior writer covering acquisition and procurement.






Sep 12, 2011
Todd Normandy
No Comments

Home-building contractor running for Hayden city council
A Hayden home-building contractor has filed for a seat on the
Hayden city council, and says he’s looking to boost the building
and business climate in the city.
Seeking his first elected office, Tim Timmins, 62, is owner of
Eagle Ridge Builders, which makes unsold or “spec” homes.
He is seeking the city council seat No. 1, which currently is
held by Nancy Lowery.
Lowery’s term is expiring and she’s running for mayor against
fellow City Councilmember Dick Panabaker and incumbent Ron
McIntire, who filed Friday.
Timmins moved to Hayden four months ago, after living in Coeur
d’Alene since 1990. He has been married for 18 years, and has four
grown children.
He is president of the Hayden area concerned business group, but
is resigning because of his candidacy.
He sits on the contractors board of the Idaho bureau of
occupational licenses, and is a director on the executive committee
of the Idaho building contractors association.
He’s also a director on the board of the North Idaho Building
Contractors Association.
He said Hayden needs increased building activity, which would
help raise revenues, which haven’t covered expenses in recent
budgets. The city has had to draw money from its reserves to
balance recent budgets, including this summer when nearly $400,000
was used.
Citing the National Association of Home Builders, he said that
each home built generates three full-time jobs for a year and
generates $90,000 in tax revenue.
“Building fees are too high in Hayden and nobody wants to build
here,” he said. “The city is slow on growth because of that.”
Additionally, he said, Hayden and Hayden Lake need to work
better together on resolving differences concerning Strahorn Road.
Hayden Lake designated a half-mile section of Strahorn – between
Miles Avenue and Hayden Avenue – a southbound one-way in
September.
It needs to be changed back to a two-way, Timmins said.
If that were to happen, he said, the road would need to be
widened.
However, he’s not sure how it’s going to be widened as the
Hayden Lake Country Club isn’t going to allow trees to be cut along
the road.
Having Strahorn a one-way is “forcing too much traffic through
Hayden residential streets,” he said.
On the issue of revitalizing the downtown corridor along
Government Way, he said, “It was the worst thing that could have
been done.”
He said business owners he’s talked to hate it.





Sep 12, 2011
Tim Sanders
No Comments

Plans made for car rental facility at Southwest Florida International Airport – The News
<!–Saxotech Paragraph Count: 1–>
A local company will do the design, and a Davie-based company will lead construction for a reconfigured car rental facility at Southwest Florida International Airport.

Lee County commissioners met at the international airport this morning as the port authority board ratified several recommendations from their panel of citizen-advisors. Among them, they:

• Tapped to lead car rental facility redesign: SchenkelShultz Architecture, which has nine offices nationwide, including one in Fort Myers.

• Gave the nod to JDK General Contractors, of Davie, to lead construction work. However, commissioners had a lengthy discussion with members of the Airports Special Management Committee on when it is appropriate to give preference to local businesses, and when it is not.

Finally, they voted 3-2 in favor of airport staff conducting contract negotiations with JDK. Commissioners Ray Judah and Hall cast the dissenting votes.

However, commissioners asked the airports committee to come up with guidelines to apply for future requests for proposals.

In other business, commissioners approved a request to request from Gulf Coast Technology Center Inc. to terminate its nearly 25-acre ground lease at Southwest Florida International Airport.

The land was to be home for a technology and bioscience business campus.

However, the national and regional economic slump and tight credit “made it difficult for (the company) to get the project off the ground,” said Ben Siegel, port authority deputy director/administration.

Under the termination agreement, the port authority regains all rights to the property, and will keep $100,000 from the technology center.




Sep 12, 2011
Mike Tanner
No Comments

DWP IT contractor jobs to be kept in UK
 12 September 2011
									Hundreds of government contractor IT jobs are to be saved after Hewlettt Packard abandoned plans to offshore work to India, union officials have claimed.
Plans to offshore jobs which involve record maintenance for the Department for Work and Pensions attracted industrial action from Public and Commercial Services union members who were angered by proposals to move jobs from HP sites in Newcastle, Lytham and Sheffield to Bangalore.
But the union has now said its members have “forced” the government contractor to abandon proposals. 
“This is very good news for our members who have campaigned hard on this and been rewarded with saving their jobs,” said PCS general secretary Mark Serwotka.
“But it also means that the very real concerns we raised about data security have been listened to, and we are pleased that ministers have seen sense.”
Politicians had become concerned at the proposal to move jobs to India, and writing for Publicservice.co.uk Labour MP Mary Glindon argued against offshoring on the grounds that it posed risks to data security and economic recovery in the UK. 
Proposals would have required approval from government ministers before being implemented. Facing pressure from union members and MPs, DWP permanent secretary Robert Devereux told Public Servant magazine in August that it was his minister’s “starting point” to encourage jobs to be kept in the UK. But he added that this challenge sat alongside the need to cut department costs by 40 per cent.
								




Sep 11, 2011
Todd Normandy
No Comments

College ‘Ecobarn’ embraces nature

Published on Sun Sep 11 16:28:09 BST 2011


A LOCAL college has taken a big step towards the future by looking to nature in the construction of a new ecologically-friendly building.
The King Edward VI Humanities College in Spilsby spent a year building its eye-catching and innovative ‘Ecobarn’.
The building features everything from a ‘growing roof’ and solar panels to ‘rammed earth’ and hempcrete walls with sheep’s wool for insulation.
And many of these innovative designs will provide a lo-tech but highly successful solution to the world’s growing energy crisis.
The earth walls, for instance, will work to keep the building cool in summer months, negating the need for air conditioning, but will also soak up the Sun’s rays and slowly release that heat during the day – meaning that the building should stay toasty in winter months without the need for expensive central heating.
Lights in the centre are also linked to motion sensors, meaning that only the ones that are needed at any given moment are ever used.
The use of light tunnels means that the need for artificial lighting is reduced even further.
And the college’s headteacher Margaret Reeve is absolutely delighted with these and the many other eco-innovations that will be used in the barn. 
She said: “The Ecobarn is a marvellous facility for our students, our Primary Schools and local community wildlife groups.
“This purpose built, superbly equipped facility, provides the very latest technology for learning, in addition to providing a learning environment in the form of an eco-friendly building.
“Students are thrilled to be learning in such high tech classrooms and we are already extremely busy with enquiries from local groups about the use of our facilities during weekends and holiday periods”.
As well as using eco-friendly materials the college also made a point of sourcing material from within the local area – from the creation of stylish bottle-windows from old empties, through to the use of twigs and other wood from nearby land.
A number of local organisations were also brought on board for the project – from building contractors to local garden centres and councils to the National Farmers’ Union.
Among the organisations to offer support were the Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust, which provided information for some of the Ecobarn’s wildlife habitat displays.
The college is a member of the Trust’s junior club ‘Wildlife Watch’.
Mary Porter, is the local organiser for the Watch.
She said: “I’ve been to see the barn and was greatly impressed – they’ve made some innovative use of materials.”
She added that she was most impressed with the Ecobarn’s worktop surfaces, which are formed out of recycled plastic.
 






 Email to a friend
 Print this page






Sep 10, 2011
Todd Normandy
No Comments

Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacuees














BASTROP, Texas (AP)   Residents left homeless by a massive Central Texas wildfire turned their attention Friday to what they need to move forward, with some voicing frustration over a perceived delay in federal response even as early signs of recovery appeared in reopened neighborhoods.


By Adam Sacasa, AP
Jason Birdwell of the Ferris Fire Department hoses down a home in Jefferson, Texas, on Thursday.



By Adam Sacasa, AP
Jason Birdwell of the Ferris Fire Department hoses down a home in Jefferson, Texas, on Thursday.

Firefighters focused on extinguishing hotspots and had isolated remaining flames from the blaze that has burned for almost a week in and around the city of Bastrop, destroying nearly 1,400 homes and sweeping across about 45 square miles of rain-starved landscape.
“We believe the forward progress (of the fire) has been stopped, thank God for that,” Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst told evacuated residents gathered at the fire command center.


PHOTOS: Texas wildfires destroy homes


Still, thousands of evacuees were prevented from returning to their homes for a sixth day because trees continued to burn underground, loose power lines hung from scorched poles and more than 800 firefighters were working to tamp down the remainder of the fire 25 miles east of Austin.
“It’s just really frustrating,” said Dee Redenius, 40, who came to the fire command center for answers. “You want to know if your house is there or if it’s not. … They don’t let you in, you know. You can’t get assistance.”
Dewhurst said the state is working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state emergency management personnel on specific fire declarations. FEMA spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said on Friday the agency “received the first request from the governor for individual aid to help Texas residents whose homes were damaged or destroyed in the fires, or who suffered other personal losses.”
She said FEMA would “work with the White House to review this request as expeditiously as possible.”
Dewhurst also made a public plea for President Obama to make a major disaster declaration that he said would remove red tape and give the state access to more resources. Hours later, White House officials announced that Obama had signed a declaration declaring a major disaster exists in Texas.
The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.
“We need help yesterday … Mr. President, we need a statewide disaster declaration right away,” Dewhurst said prior to Obama’s declaration.
Texas is in the midst of its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.
The Texas Forest Service said Friday that the Bastrop fire had racked up a bill of at least $1.2 million so far. But the agency cautioned the figure was an early estimate and was expected to climb. The early price tag includes firefighting costs but not damage caused by the blaze.
A DC-10 jet originally meant to dump fire retardant on the Central Texas wildfires was diverted Friday to help firefighters with a stubborn 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties northwest of Houston. The fire in Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties forced some people in the area to leave their homes, but was not threatening any towns or cities, Texas Forest Service spokesman Ralph Collum said.
In Bastrop, tables set up at the entrance to a neighborhood that had reopened a day earlier filled up with donated clothing and toiletries. A first aid station was assembled and streets began to buzz with tree-trimming crews and building contractors.
Officials also announced that schools would reopen Monday. But Bastrop Independent School District superintendent Steve Murray said, “We anticipate the homeless student count in Bastrop ISD to triple, quadruple or even more.”
To deal with that, school officials were developing plans to pick up students at hotels, shelters and other locations.
Monica Turner, 34, was growing more frustrated every day. She had seen photographs of her family’s house in ashes.
“We have pictures, but pictures don’t do any good when you need to have closure and you need to see it face to face,” she said. “I need to have that closure so that I can go and move on.”

Posted  | Updated 







 




Sep 10, 2011
Tim Sanders
No Comments

Brasfield & Gorrie Announces Companywide LATISTA Implementation for …
Brasfield  Gorrie, the largest general contractor in the southern U.S., will implement more than 1,000 users on LATISTA construction quality management software. The mobile and web-collaboration software solution will allow Brasfield to improve construction quality results for QA/QC, commissioning, punchlist, production tracking, and safety.
Reston, Virginia (PRWEB) September 07, 2011 
 Brasfield  Gorrie General Contractors, the largest general contractor in the southeast according to ENR, signed an agreement with Latista to implement up to 1,000 end users. The mobile and web-collaboration software solution will allow Brasfield to improve construction quality results for QA/QC, commissioning, punchlist, production tracking, and safety.
Brasfield spent more than two years using Latista on individual projects, and after comparing it to other solutions available in the market, made the decision to standardize on Latista. They chose Latista because it offered a comprehensive solution, including document management, quality, and commissioning features within full web-based, iPad, and Windows tablet PC environments.
As an example of Brasfield’s success, the project team on All Children’s Hospital in Tampa, Fla., used Latista as part of an extensive punchlist process. Users on the $403-million, 1 million sq. ft. hospital tracked thousands of issues over five months. Project manager Jerry Whitfield said that, thanks to the automation: “We spent about 25% of the time that we normally would have spent sorting spreadsheets, creating and saving documents, printing, and emailing.” A fast, automated punchlist process saved the project team and owners time and money.
“We had success implementing and using Latista on over one dozen projects,” said Brasfield CTO James Purcell. “Our goal is to ‘Do better, work harder and build success stories every day,’ and we believe Latista can be part of that. The solution made our quality inspection processes faster and more accurate. We improved our turnaround time and communications with owners and subcontractors.”
Chris Ramsey, Latista Executive Vice President, praised Brasfield as a welcome addition to Latista enterprise customers. “Brasfield  Gorrie has demonstrated consistent technological leadership in its role as the largest general contractor in the southeast. Automating their quality management and field operations is just the continuation of a long history of good technology practices.”
About Brasfield  Gorrie
Headquartered in Birmingham, Ala., since 1964, Brasfield  Gorrie General Contractors (www.brasfieldgorrie.com) ranks 28th in the nation’s “Top 400 Contractors according to Engineering News-Record, and is second in healthcare general contractors according to Modern Healthcare magazine. Today they have seven regional offices and expect to earn more than $1.9 billion in revenues in 2011.
About LATISTA Technologies
Unparalleled in the industry, LATISTA’s (www.latista.com) enterprise web and mobile tablet PC and Apple iPad software delivers quality and field management solutions for construction. LATISTA’s current customers already include Fortune 100 capital project owners and top 10 general construction and engineering firms. LATISTA’s customers attest that their use of LATISTA has led them to higher quality production, lower costs and reduced legal and financial risks.
###
For the original version on PRWeb visit: www.prweb.com/releases/prweblatista/brasfieldgorrie/prweb8774209.htm


Pages:1234567...37»















  Recent Posts 
QA Graphics Introduces Partner Program
XL Insurance introduces coverage for construction subcontractor default
Zambooki Connects Contractors with Homeowners for Repairs and Rebuilding.
Will OFPP’s new guidance be used to take jobs from contractors?
Home-building contractor running for Hayden city council

Categories 
a contractor

bad contractors

building contractors

concrete contractors

contractor bidding

contractor contracts

contractor forms

contractor jobs

contractor license

contractor management

contractor rates

contractor referral

contractor reviews

contractor school

contractor software

contractor training

contractors board

contractors bond

contractors federation

contractors license

contractors school

contractors software

electrical contractor

engineering contractors

for contractors

general contractor

general contractors

home improvement

remodel contractors

remodeling contractor

remodeling contractors

renovation contractor

renovation contractors

your contractor


TagsAgc
Associated General Contractors
Associated General Contractors Of America
Association Officials
Association Of General Contractors
Better Business Bureau
building
building contractors
Business Journals
Chief Economist
Chief Executive Officer
Company News
Construction
Construction Budget
Construction Employment
Construction Industry
Construction Job
Construction Projects
contractor
contractor bidding
contractor jobs
contractor reviews
Contractors
Contractors License
Dashboard
Email Address
Employment Declines
General
General Contractor
General Contractors
home
house
Insurance
Job
Jobs
money
New Jobs
painting
Public Construction
remodeling
renovation
Roofing
Simonson
Stocks
Subscribers
 











		Copyright 2010-2011
			






About - Contact - Privacy - Terms of Service



