Texas wildfire destroyed almost 1,600 homes






						Wed 14 Sep 2011 07:36:15 AM EDT					


fatnewspaper.com








home
world
politics
sports
business
health
entertainment
technology 










General news

Top Stories
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science

Sports news

Sports
Olympic Sports
Baseball
Basketball
Curling
Football
Hockey
Soccer



Texas wildfire destroyed almost 1,600 homes
17 people still unaccounted for



Share
|







Beginning of Story Content
The number of homes destroyed by a Texas wildfire has risen to 1,554 and is expected to further increase as officials enter more areas where the blaze has been extinguished, officials said Sunday.
Seventeen people remain unaccounted for.
Bastrop County officials joined by Democratic U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett sought to provide new information to hundreds of residents evacuated from their homes a week ago when blustering wind whipped up by tropical storm Lee swept across parched, drought-stricken Texas, helping to spark more than 190 wildfires statewide. The worst of the fires has consumed more than 13,000 hectares near Bastrop and about 50 kilometres southeast of Austin.A plane from the Texas Forest Service drops flame retardant over a fire in the woods near Diana, Texas, as the state suffers through one of its worst wildfire outbreaks ever. Sarah A. Miller/The Tyler Morning Telegraph/APWhile sharing the bad news that the tally of destroyed homes will increase, officials also told some 100 residents who gathered at a news conference on Sunday that people would begin going back into the scorched areas on Monday. A detailed plan will allow residents to slowly enter the evacuated areas over the coming week as firefighters and emergency responders ensure the land has properly cooled, hotspots are extinguished and the blaze is contained.
Tensions and frustrations boiled over at a similar gathering on Saturday when residents demanded to be allowed to return to their neighborhoods to see what remains of their homes and attempt to salvage a few belongings. Many people were given only minutes to evacuate as the raging blaze surrounded homes and neighborhoods.
Some had time to only gather a few important belongings. Others left with only the clothes on their back.Missing people not necessarily in dangerStill, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said the 17 people unaccounted for may simply be out of town.
"They could have been on vacation," he said.
The federal government on Friday declared Texas a disaster area, paving the way for individuals to get financial aid. Doggett said the Federal Emergency Management Agency will incur 75 percent of the costs of fighting the fires, and families will be eligible for up to $30,000 US to pay for expenses not covered by insurance policies, such as hotel bills, temporary housing and even construction costs.
"The $30,000 can only go so far toward the expenses that some of you have," Doggett said. "But I think it can be a lot of assistance."
On Monday, schools will open for the first time since the Bastrop blaze erupted. So many people are living in the town's Super 8, Best Western and Holiday Inn that school buses will stop at all three.
County emergency management director Mike Fisher said the Bastrop blaze is now 50 per cent contained.
North of Houston, meanwhile, firefighters say a tri-county blaze that has consumed more than 8,000 hectares and destroyed nearly 60 homes is also half contained.  
© The Associated Press, 2011 
							Last updated: 2011-09-11 16:54:31
							Source: http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2011/09/11/texas-wildfires-bastrop-homes-destroyed.html?cmp=rss





San Francisco, CAToday's weather



					            								14° C,
													            Mostly Cloudy					            


Forecast


Wed

						            									54° C - 63° C,
															            Clear					            




Thu

						            									52° C - 58° C,
															            Clear					            




Fri

						            									52° C - 58° C,
															            Clear					            




Sat

						            									54° C - 63° C,
															            Clear					            


















 




						©2011 Fatnewspaper.com
					





