
	Media



Tommy Ratto, a fire fighter from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., team cleans up a hot spot after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011. Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home. (AP Photo/Eric Schlegel - POOL)A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011 after the destructive wildfire.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home. (AP Photo/Eric Schlegel - POOL)A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home.  (AP Photo/Eric Schlegel - POOL)In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains of her friend's home that was destroyed by wildfires, in Bastrop, Texas. Scorching temperatures, strong winds and dry vegetation are turning Texas wildfires into fast and furious dangers that hop from place to place within hours, even minutes, and give residents little time to flee. Now it's likely to get worse.  (AP Photo/Eric Gay, File)A volunteer firefighter is blurred by heat waves rising from the burning remnants of a barn destroyed in a wildfire which broke out Friday, Sept. 9, 2011, west of Lilbert, Texas, in a wooded area north of Farm Road 343. Officials had not determined if the fire was an off-shoot of the larger Angelina River Bottom Fire, which burned more than 6,500 acres in Nacogdoches and Cherokee counties in Texas before being brought under control. (AP Photo/The Daily Sentinel, Andrew D. Brosig) MANDATORY CREDIT


