Would you start Marques Colston or Patrick Crayton? | Trending Now Site




Trending Now SitePopular news and information about trending topics right now!


Home





You are here: Home » Chit Chat » Would you start Marques Colston or Patrick Crayton?

Would you start Marques Colston or Patrick Crayton?
Written by Linden on September 10, 2011  · Leave a Comment 





Who would be the better player to start Marques Colston against the Eagles or Patrick Crayton against the Giants? this has been a tough one for me.
Don't let Crayton's great game last week make this decision hard. Colston is the number 1 receiver on a team with the best fantasy football quarterback, Brees. Go with him for sure. The Eagles are good, but you should stick with the better player here.
Share this:FacebookStumbleUponRedditDiggEmailPrint
You might also be interested in...Fantasy Football 2011 Preview: Quarterbacks
The Fantasy Fool
College football season to start after scandal-marred summer
Boston Bruins forwards Nathan Horton and Milan Lucic ready to go for start of 2011-12 season
New York Giants vs Washington Redskins NFL Spread Picks



Categories: Chit Chat 










Share your thoughts...

Click here to cancel reply.



Name *

Email *

Website














 Recent Posts

What team do you think will draft Tim Tebow and what position?
Five Adjustments the Raiders Should Make in Second Half
What Places In the Philippines were Under the Spanish Control during the Spanish Period?
What is the atlanta braves old theme song?
Anyone with Tmobile notice the time is fast on your phone?


Adsense



Archives

September 2011
August 2011


Popular Search Terms
weeds season 7 episode 11nfl picks week 1twin towers impactrachel zoe project season 4 episode 1the rachel zoe project season 4 episode 1weeds s7e11civil war pow campchad ochocincoCABLE DISTRIBUTORlsu football players drafted










  Admin Login  
  Copyright © 2011 Trending Now Site  












Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			




