NEMS360.com - News, Business, Classifieds, and Events in Northeast Mississippi 


































  


articles
ads
business
events
profiles
blogs





 











 






 






 











 




sign in








 


home

news
sports
business
entertainment
living
opinion
local elections
weather
staff blogs
birth announcements
obituaries
contests
publications
trending topics!
yournems360








e-edition



my content

my profiles
my businesses
my events
my blogs



directories

businesses
churches
restaurants
shopping
sports & rec.
real estate
... more



classifieds

real estate
rentals
autos
jobs
all categories
place an ad
NeMissJobs
NeMissAutos



community

events
blogs




				RSS feeds


 news
 sports
 living
 business
 opinion
 obituaries



publication

about us
our history
contact us
advertise
products
conversationguidelines
subscriptions



sister sites














 















 








 


Copyright Policy 
Journal Publishing Company, Inc. 
 

Journal Publishing Company, Inc. has adopted the following policy concerning 
copyright infringement in accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright 
Act, 17 U.S.C. 512. The contact information for Journal Publishing Company, 
Inc.'s Designated Agent to Receive Notification of Claimed Infringement 
("Designated Agent") is listed at the end of this policy, 
and is on file with the United States Copyright Office http:/www.copyright.gov/onlinesp/list/index.html.  

Journal Publishing Company, Inc. takes copyright and other intellectual 
property rights very seriously. It is Journal Publishing Company, Inc.'s 
policy to (1) expeditiously block access to or remove content that it 
believes in good faith may contain material that infringes the copyrights 
of third parties and (2) remove and discontinue service to repeat offenders. 
Procedure for Reporting Copyright 
Infringements:
 

If you believe that content residing on or accessible through a Journal 
Publishing Company, Inc. website or service infringes your copyright, 
please send a notice of claimed copyright infringement containing the 
following information to the Designated Agent listed below:  

1. A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act 
on behalf of the owner of the copyright that has been allegedly infringed;  

2. Identification of works or materials being infringed;  

3. Identification of the content that is claimed to be infringing including 
information regarding the location of the content that the copyright 
owner seeks to have removed, with sufficient detail so that Journal 
Publishing Company, Inc. is capable of finding and verifying its existence;  

4. Contact information about the notifier including address, telephone 
number and, if available, e-mail address;  

5. A statement that the notifier has a good faith belief that the content 
is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and  

6. A statement made under penalty of perjury that the information provided 
is accurate and the notifying party is authorized to make the complaint 
on behalf of the copyright owner.  

Once a complete and proper notice of claimed copyright infringement 
is received by the Designated Agent, or if Journal Publishing Company, 
Inc. otherwise comes to believe in good faith that an item on the Journal 
Publishing Company, Inc. service may contain material that infringes 
copyright :  

It is Journal Publishing Company, Inc.'s policy: 

1. to remove or disable access to the content identified in the notice 
of claimed infringement;  

2. to notify the content provider, member or user that it has removed 
or disabled access to the content; and  

3. to terminate any account that has been used to post two or more infringing 
items that were removed from the Journal Publishing Company, Inc. service 
pursuant to this policy.  
 
Procedure to Supply a Counter-Notice to the Designated Agent: 

If the content provider, member or user believes that the content that 
was removed or to which access was disabled is not infringing, or the 
content provider, member or user believes that it has the right to post 
and use such content from the copyright owner, the copyright owner's 
agent, or pursuant to the law, the content provider, member or user 
may send a counter-notice containing the following information to the 
Designated Agent listed below:  

1. A physical or electronic signature of the content provider, member 
or user;  


2. Identification of the content that has been removed or to which access 
has been disabled and the location at which the content appeared before 
it was removed or disabled;  

3. A statement that the content provider, member or user has a good 
faith belief that the content was removed or disabled as a result of 
mistake or a misidentification of the content; and  

4. Content provider's, member's or user's name, address, telephone number, 
and, if available, e-mail address and a statement that such person or 
entity consents to the jurisdiction of the Federal Court for the judicial 
district in which the content provider's, member's or user's address 
is located, or if the Content provider's, member's or user's address 
is located outside the United States, for any judicial district in which 
Journal Publishing Company, Inc. is located, and that such person or 
entity will accept service of process from the person who provided notification 
of the alleged infringement.  

If a counter-notice is received by the Designated Agent, Journal Publishing 
Company, Inc. may send a copy of the counter-notice to the original 
complaining party informing that person that it may replace the removed 
content or cease disabling it in 10 business days. Unless the copyright 
owner files an action seeking a court order against the content provider, 
member or user, the removed content may be replaced, or access to it 
restored, in 10 to 14 business days or more after receipt of the counter-notice, 
at Journal Publishing Company, Inc.'s discretion.  

Please contact Journal Publishing Company, Inc.'s Designated Agent at 
the following address:  

Designated Agent to Receive Notification of Claimed Infringement:  

Michael Duran 

1242 South Green Street  
Tupelo, MS 38828  
copyright@djournal.com 
Phone: 662.842.2611  
Fax: 662.620.8103


 












Software Copyright © 2011 Matchbin, Inc. - Content Copyright © 2011 Journal Interactive, a division of Journal Inc.  All rights reserved.

This software is in a public beta test phase.
Read our Privacy PolicyRead our Copyright Policy

nems360.com




















