Security Beefed Up Over Terror Threat | Avid Investor Group





 Follow on Twitter Subscribe by RSS



HomeAbout UsContactPrivacy PolicyDisclaimer

 





  











Home
Market
Stocks
ETF
Commodities
Forex
Investing
Personal Finance
US & World News
 





Security Beefed Up Over Terror Threat
Posted by Fox News in US & World News on September 10, 2011 9:06 AM





The two cities that were at the heart of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks are on high alert this weekend after the government received a “credible” tip that Al Qaeda plans to launch an attack on Washington or New York as the nation marks the 10th anniversary of 9/11.
Extra security is clearly visible on subways in both cities as officials are taking seriously a joint FBI, Homeland Security Intelligence Bulletin, first obtained by Fox News that states the timing and method of the potential terror plot.
“Al Qaeda possibly planned to carry out attacks…including a possible car bomb attack,” the bulletin reads.
Al Qaeda may have sent American terrorists or men carrying U.S. travel documents to launch the attack, government officials say.
One U.S. official says Al Qaeda dispatched three men, at least two of whom could be U.S. citizens, to detonate a car bomb in one of the cities. Should that mission prove impossible, the attackers have been told to simply cause as much destruction as they can.
Word that Al Qaedahad ordered the mission reached U.S. officials midweek. A CIA informant who has proved reliable in the past approached intelligence officials overseas to say that the men had been ordered by newly minted Al Qaedaleader Ayman al Zawahri to mark the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks Sunday by doing harm on U.S. soil.
The tipster says the would-be attackers are of Arab descent and may speak Arabic as well as English. Counterterrorism officials were looking for certain names associated with the threat, but it was unclear whether the names were real or fake.
Counterterrorism officials have been working around the clock to determine whether the threat is accurate, but so far, have been unable to corroborate it, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the investigation.
In the meantime, extra security was put in place to protect the people in the two cities that took the brunt of the jetliner attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon a decade ago. It was the worst terror assault in the nation’s history, and Al Qaedahas long dreamed of striking again to mark the anniversary. But it could be weeks before the intelligence community can say whether this particular threat is real.
Undaunted by talk of a new terror threat, New Yorkers and Washingtonians wove among police armed with assault rifles and waited with varying degrees of patience at security checkpoints Friday.
Mayor Michael Bloomberg made a point of taking the subway to City Hall.
Briefed on the threat Friday morning, President Obama instructed his security team to take “all necessary precautions,” the White House said. Obama still planned to travel to New York on Sunday to mark the 10th anniversary with stops that day at the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pa.
Washington commuters were well aware of the terror talk.
Cheryl Francis, of Chantilly, Va., said she travels over the Roosevelt bridge into Washington every day and doesn’t plan to change her habits. Francis, who was in Washington on Sept. 11, 2001, said a decade later the country is more aware and alert.
“It’s almost like sleeping with one eye open,” she said, but she added that people need to continue living their lives.
The intelligence community regularly receives tips and information of this nature. But the timing of this particular threat had officials especially concerned, because it was the first “active plot” that came to light as the country marked the significant anniversary, a moment that was also significant to al-Qaida, according to information gleaned in May from Osama bin Laden’s compound.
The U.S. government has long known that terrorists see the 10th anniversary of 9/11 and other uniquely American dates as opportunities to strike. Officials have also been concerned that some may see this anniversary as an opportunity to avenge bin Laden’s death.
Acutely aware of these factors, law enforcement around the country had already increased security measures at airports, nuclear plants, train stations and more in the weeks leading up to Sept. 11. The latest threat, potentially targeting New York or Washington, prompted an even greater security surge in those cities. U.S. embassies and consulates abroad had also boosted their vigilance in preparation for the anniversary.
At Penn Station in New York, transit authority police carried assault rifles and wore helmets and bullet proof vests as they watched crowds of commuters. Police searched passengers’ bags as they entered the subway, and National Guard troops in camouflage fatigues moved among riders, eyeing packages.
In Washington, Police Chief Cathy Lanier warned that unattended cars parked in suspicious locations or near critical buildings and structures would be towed.
Fox News’ Catherine Herridge and The Associated Press contributed to this report.





 

Share this article







 


 



 





Subscribe below for our free weekly report

Email Address 








Close













Latest Poll 
How do you pay your credit card balances each month?



Featured
Recent
Comments
Tags




 Shell Brent Charlie Platform Shut-In Since July – Regulator
14 Sep, 2011
 

 Zimbabwe Mines Minister: No Intention Of Canceling Licenses
14 Sep, 2011
 

 Google bid for Motorola rose in negotiation: filing
14 Sep, 2011
 

 Fundamental Oil Report (2011-09-14)
14 Sep, 2011
 

 India Steelmakers, Government Forecast 7%-9% Growth In Steel Demand This Fiscal Year
13 Sep, 2011
 





 Currency Majors Technical Analysis
14 Sep, 2011
 

 US: MBA Mortgage Applications bounce after 3 weeks of falls
14 Sep, 2011
 

 US MBA Mortgage Applications rises 6.3% in Sep 9 week
14 Sep, 2011
 

 Forex Flash: USD/CAD: Significant long-term bottom at 0.9400 – Commerzbank
14 Sep, 2011
 

 Forex: USD/JPY: Risk of a deeper decline to 120.00 – FXMarketAlerts
14 Sep, 2011
 





No comments


borrowing
business
continuing education
credit counselling
economics
economy
education
ethics
Finance
financing
foreign exchange
Forex
futures
government
health insurance
insurance
Investing
Las Colinas apartments
leasing
life insurance
money
mutual funds
myimproffesor forex
national foundation for credit counseling
online education
Personal Finance
Real Estate
sales
stocks
taxes

 

 
 
 

 





 
 














 
 




HomeAbout UsContactPrivacy PolicyDisclaimer
© 2011 Avid Investor Group. Avid Trader, Inc. All rights reserved.Website by Innovadix.
 





