FOOD FOR THOUGHT - powered by FeedBurner
&



FOOD FOR THOUGHT

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Washington Fire: Crews Gain Ground, Evacuation Lifted For Some


Posted: 2011-09-11 20:18:00 UTC-05:00
Washington Fire: Crews Gain Ground, Evacuation Lifted For Some

GOLDENDALE, Wash. — Eighteen homes have burned in a blaze moving through dry forests near Washington state's Satus Pass and that number could increase, officials said Sunday.The fire has burned through more than 6 square miles about 20 miles north of the Columbia River and about 12 miles northeast of city of Goldendale since last Wednesday. The 4,250-acre fire is 30 percent contained as of Sunday.





Scientist Prove DNA Can Be Reprogrammed by Words and Frequencies | Wake Up World


Posted: 2011-09-11 18:06:16 UTC-05:00
Scientist Prove DNA Can Be Reprogrammed by Words and Frequencies | Wake Up WorldBy Grazyna Fosar and Franz BludorfTHE HUMAN DNA IS A BIOLOGICAL INTERNET and superior in many aspects to the artificial one. Russian scientific research directly or indirectly explains phenomena such as clairvoyance, intuition, spontaneous and remote acts of healing, self healing, affirmation techniques, unusual light/auras around people (namely spiritual masters), mind’s influence on weather patterns and much more. In addition, there is evidence for a whole new type of medicine in which DNA can be influenced and reprogrammed by words and frequencies WITHOUT cutting out and replacing single genes.





In Rick Perry's Texas, Firefighters Forced To Pay For Gear, Engine Fuel


Posted: 2011-09-10 19:13:59 UTC-05:00
In Rick Perry's Texas, Firefighters Forced To Pay For Gear, Engine Fuel

WASHINGTON -- In Texas, firefighters aren't just battling the wild fires raging around Austin and Houston. The state's first responders have also had to deal with budget cuts affecting everything from fuel purchases to hoses and oxygen tanks.In some cases, fire officials say, firefighters have had to pay out of pocket for basic necessities like proper protective gear and fuel to get them to the scene. One fire department that battled the blazes in Bastrop County had to pay for a hose, recalledBastrop City Fire Chief Henry Perry, speaking to The Huffington Post during a break from working the wild fires.





Maybe Georgia Will Execute an Innocent Man


Posted: 2011-09-10 18:03:05 UTC-05:00
Maybe Georgia Will Execute an Innocent Man

Texas shouldn't be the only U.S. state that gets to execute innocent people, right? That's what the jealous state of Georgia seems to be saying by its plans to execute Troy Davis, convicted of murdering a police officer in 1991 and possibly innocent of the crime.






'Cyber 9/11': Serious Risk Or Inflated Threat?


Posted: 2011-09-10 17:43:11 UTC-05:00
'Cyber 9/11': Serious Risk Or Inflated Threat?

Ten years after the Sept. 11 attacks, many lawmakers and intelligence officials say they fear the next such attack could be triggered with the click of a mouse. They warn of a potential "cyber 9/11" caused by terrorists hijacking the nation's critical infrastructure, plunging cities into sustained blackouts, halting trains and planes or wiping out banks' financial data."When the terrorists get smarter, they won't even need to come to our shores to create the kind of havoc and turmoil they did by flying planes into the Twin Towers. They will be able to do it from their laptops from overseas," Michael McConnell, the former National Security Agency director and current executive at defense contractor Booz Allen Hamilton, said in a 2009 interview.





ZERO An Investigation Into 9/11 (FULL documentary)


Posted: 2011-09-10 14:21:01 UTC-05:00
Uploaded by WarCrime911 on Dec 23, 2010Please visit http://zero911movie.com/site/ and purchase the whole movie to help support the people who worked hard to produce such an outstanding film. ZERO: An Investigation into 9/11, has one central thesis - that the official version of the events surrounding the attacks on 9/11 can not be true. This brand new feature documentary from Italian production company Telemaco explores the latest scientific evidence and reveals dramatic new witness testimony, which directly conflicts with the US Government's account.Featuring presentations from intellectual heavy weights; Gore Vidal, and Nobel Prize winner Dario Fo, the film challenges assumptions surrounding the attacks. In the words of the Italian daily newspaper, Il Corriere de da Sera, "What results is a sequence of contradictions, gaps, and omissions of stunning gravity."The importance of this film can not be overstated. If its thesis is correct, the justification for going to war in Iraq is built on a series of outrageous lies.On Tuesday 26th February, Europarlementarian Guilietto Chiesa invited his colleagues and the press to attend the screening and debate of the Italian-produced documentary named 'ZERO, an investigation into the events of 9/11'. Object of the screening was to create political awareness of the faulty official investigation into the events by the 9/11 Commission.Besides Mr Chiesa, the panel consisted of Japanese parlementarian Fujita, Dr David Ray Griffin, film distributor Tim Sparke & the director and producers of the film.After his opening statements, Mr Chiesa welcomed his guest speakers, including the producers, director and distributor of the documentary. Mr Chiesa pointed out that he was unable to find any distributor in his native country of Italy and was happy to find a company in the UK, led by Mr Tim Sparke, to handle worldwide distribution of this important film. 'It is important to realize,' he emphasized 'that the movie was made thanks to contribution and donations of hundreds of citizens who feel a new investigation is more than warranted.' No less than 450 people worked on this documentary on a voluntary basis. They never received any kind of payment. Their reward is the movie itself, which they feel is an instrument to create awareness and a means to provoke a political debate in Europe. Read the rest on 9/11 Blogger....http://www.911blogger.com/node/14103





Video: Ridiculous: Illinois Man Faces 75 Years In Prison For Recording Police!


Posted: 2011-09-10 12:30:33 UTC-05:00
Video: Ridiculous: Illinois Man Faces 75 Years In Prison For Recording Police!This so crazy and stupid this is how the wicked fights back they pass laws to protect their guilty brothers and sisters! They beat us and shoot us and now for us recording them we are breaking the law and could be put in jail! What are they forcing us to do now! What other options do we have left? Allah says in the HQ " Fight with those who fight with you in the manner in which they fight" then Allah says "when the oppressor will not give you justice it's a MUST that we take Justice". some of yo





Troy Davis speaks from death row


Posted: 2011-09-10 10:47:26 UTC-05:00
PLEASE HELP US AS A PEOPLE TOO STOP THIS SYSTEM IN MURDERING OUR YOUNG MEN & WOMAN- PLEASE, PLEAZ, CALL GOVENOR: NATHAN DEAL'S OFFICE ASK FOR CLEMECY FOR TROY: 404-656-1776 & PARDON & PAROLES 404-656-5651 JUST TWO PHONE CALLS WE FREE US ALL:





US Oil Giant Exxon Mobile Flees To Russia Over Obama Fears | Pakalert Press


Posted: 2011-09-10 10:40:38 UTC-05:00
US Oil Giant Exxon Mobile Flees To Russia Over Obama Fears | Pakalert PressIn what can only be described in the most astounding of terms, the Kremlin is reporting that the world’s largest corporation, American-based Exxon Mobil, has signed a deal with Russia allowing it to flee the United States in exchange for trading its vast oil and gas reserves in Texas and the Gulf of Mexico and gaining for itself exclusive drilling rights in the vast untapped regions of the Russian Arctic.





For 9/11 Cancer Sufferers, The Struggle For Help Is Just Beginning


Posted: 2011-09-09 13:53:08 UTC-05:00
For 9/11 Cancer Sufferers, The Struggle For Help Is Just Beginning

Mike Burke was enjoying a round of golf with fellow firefighters when two hijacked planes struck the twin towers ten years ago."We immediately left to go to the Trade Center," said Burke, then with Engine 201 of Sunset Park, Brooklyn. He spent the rest of that day -- and much of the night -- laboring in the cloud of dust and debris at ground zero. He returned to the smoldering site again every day for the next two weeks, and then three days a week until February 2002.Like so many others who worked at or lived near ground zero, Burke, 39, is now dealing with a lengthening list of health problems, the most troubling of which is kidney cancer. Officials originally told him the disease could not be tied to his time at ground zero.





Daily Kos: Rick Perry had an innocent man executed, and should be made to answer


Posted: 2011-09-09 11:24:57 UTC-05:00
Daily Kos: Rick Perry had an innocent man executed, and should be made to answerThe response at last night's Republican debate when Rick Perry was asked about his executions record was shocking and disgusting. One tweet suggested, "The last time the crowd cheered like that for an execution, I believe Pontius Pilate was in charge," but to be clear, the crowd wasn't cheering like that for an execution, it was cheering for 234 executions.





Food Emergency: How the World Bank and IMF Has Made African Famine Inevitable | | AlterNet


Posted: 2011-09-09 05:18:00 UTC-05:00
Food Emergency: How the World Bank and IMF Has Made African Famine Inevitable | | AlterNet“Why, in a world that produces more than enough food to feed everybody, do so many – one in seven of us – go hungry?”  -- Oxfam  Famine is spreading like wildfire throughout the horn of Africa. As 12 million people battle hunger, the UN warns that 750,000 people in Somalia face imminent death from starvation over the next four months, in the absence of outside intervention. Over the course of just 90 days, an estimated 29,000 children under the age of five died in Southern Somalia, with another 640,000 children suffering from acute malnourishment.





Amnesty International Ignores Atrocities Against Black People in Libya – This weblog is for sounding DIVINE TRUTH in the ears of the dead!


Posted: 2011-09-09 04:46:52 UTC-05:00
Amnesty International Ignores Atrocities Against Black People in Libya – This weblog is for sounding DIVINE TRUTH in the ears of the dead!” A ruthless and brutal people like America, England, and Germany should be ashamed in this modern time to look for these people, whom they have robbed, killed, murdered and brought under subjugation by force, to think that today they should be so soundly asleep that they ignore the time and the authority that they can unite, as the European has been doing against Black Africa and brown and yellow Asia.”–pg.186(The Fall Of America)





FBI Handout Lists Purchase of Preparedness Items as “Potential Indicators of Terrorist Activities” | Pakalert Press


Posted: 2011-09-08 12:55:24 UTC-05:00
FBI Handout Lists Purchase of Preparedness Items as “Potential Indicators of Terrorist Activities” | Pakalert PressAn FBI Denver Joint Terrorism Task Force handout being distributed to Colorado military surplus store owners lists the purchase of popular preparedness items and firearms accessories as “suspicious” and “potential indicators of terrorist activities,” instructing store owners to keep records on and report people who:





Video: The Future of Food – Must See Documentary ( Full Length) | Pakalert Press


Posted: 2011-09-08 12:50:13 UTC-05:00
Video: The Future of Food – Must See Documentary ( Full Length) | Pakalert PressThere is a revolutionhappening in the farm fields and on the dinner tables ofAmerica — a revolution that is transforming the very nature of the food we eat. THE FUTURE OF FOOD offers an in-depth investigation into the disturbing truth behind the unlabeled, patented, genetically engineered foods that have quietly filled U.S. grocery store shelves for the past decade.





Chaos On The Streets Of America | Pakalert Press


Posted: 2011-09-08 12:47:30 UTC-05:00
Chaos On The Streets Of America | Pakalert PressThe American DreamShould we just expect mass chaos on the streets ofAmerica every time a major holiday rolls around?  At least 42 people were hit by gunfire in New York City over the Labor Day weekend.  The violencegot so bad that even the mayor felt compelled to publicly address it.  In Chicago, at least 6 people(including a man in a wheelchair) were killed over the Labor Day weekend.  Sadly, this is just a continuation of a trend that we have seen build over the past few years.  At the beginning of the summer, there was terrible violence all over Americaduring the Memorial Day weekend.  We also saw violence break out during 4th of July celebrations.  It appears that wherever large groups of young people gather in America today, there is going to be a very good chance that chaos is going to erupt.





Brace Yourself For ‘Food Scarcity’ | Pakalert Press


Posted: 2011-09-08 12:45:03 UTC-05:00
Brace Yourself For ‘Food Scarcity’ | Pakalert PressHave you noticed rising grocery bills? That is just one sign among many that the world’s intricate system of food production is in for some severe shocks.www.thetrumpet.comHave you ever gone hungry? Ever had to scavenge for any scrap of food-like garbage simply to stave off your gnawing hunger?Probably not. Most people in the affluent West can’t even begin to imagine it.But of the nearly 7 billion people on Earth, an estimated 850 million are undernourished or chronically hungry. With global food production hurting and prices rising, this number is swiftly climbing.





The Axis Of Evil – 10 Years On | Pakalert Press


Posted: 2011-09-08 12:43:30 UTC-05:00
The Axis Of Evil – 10 Years On | Pakalert PressIt’s nearly a decade sincePresident Bush first used the term Axis of Evil to describe Iran, Iraq and North Korea. So widely reported, it provoked a flurry of other axes. A couple of months later, US diplomat, John Bolton tagged on Libya, Syria and Cuba to the mix in his “Beyond the Axis of Evil” speech. It took a few more years for Condoleezza Rice to further embellish the list with her own self styled Outposts of Tyranny; identifying Cuba, Belarus,Zimbabwe, Iran, North Korea and Mynmar as culprits.





Perry Accused Of Distorting Redistricting Map To Weaken The Latino Vote In Texas | AlterNet


Posted: 2011-09-08 04:53:41 UTC-05:00
Perry Accused Of Distorting Redistricting Map To Weaken The Latino Vote In Texas | AlterNetAt a trial that began in federal court this week in San Antonio, GOP presidential contender and Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R) faces allegations of intentionally distorting a congressional redistricting map to dilute the power of the state’s burgeoning Latino vote. The state legislature’s Mexican American Legislative Caucus and other plaintiffs are accusing Perry and Republican lawmakers of warping the map to prevent Latinos from winning office:





GOP Presidential Debate: Everyone Attacks Rick Perry, But Cheers His Grotesque Legacy of Executions | | AlterNet


Posted: 2011-09-08 04:51:05 UTC-05:00
GOP Presidential Debate: Everyone Attacks Rick Perry, But Cheers His Grotesque Legacy of Executions | | AlterNetAmid the hardest economic conditions since the Great Depression, last night's debate among the contenders for the Republican Party's presidential nomination was expected to turn on issues of job creation and government spending. But the biggest applause line of the night was a cheer for death and vengeance.When co-moderator Brian Williams of NBC noted the 234 executions that took place in Texas on the watch of Gov. Rick Perry, the current frontrunner in the GOP presidential contest, the crowd assembled in the Reagan Library in Simi Valley, California, roared its approval. Asked if he ever lost sleep worrying that one of those executed might have been innocent, Perry replied, "No, sir. I’ve never struggled with that at all." [Video via TPM.]





Our Creeping Police State: How Going to the Mall of America Can Land You in an FBI Counterterrorism Report | | AlterNet


Posted: 2011-09-08 04:48:48 UTC-05:00
Our Creeping Police State: How Going to the Mall of America Can Land You in an FBI Counterterrorism Report | | AlterNetOn May 1, 2008, at 4:59 p.m., Brad Kleinerman entered the spooky world of homeland security.As he shopped for a children’s watch inside the sprawling Mall of America, two security guards approached and began questioning him. Although he was not accused of wrongdoing, the guards filed aconfidential report about Kleinerman that was forwarded to local police.The reason: Guards thought he might pose a threat because they believed he had been looking at them in a suspicious way.





How the FBI Sabotaged Black America


Posted: 2011-09-08 03:43:55 UTC-05:00
Documentary by Gil Noble on the intentional destruction of Black America by the FBI using infiltration, counter-intelligence programs and drugs. From Marcus Garvey to Paul Robeson to Martin Luther King to Malcolm X to Fred Hampton, to the Black Panthers to heroin and crack, the FBI has worked to destroy black people. Includes interview with Darthard Perry, Ex-informer for the FBI.





How the FBI Sabotaged Black America


Posted: 2011-09-08 03:43:48 UTC-05:00
Documentary by Gil Noble on the intentional destruction of Black America by the FBI using infiltration, counter-intelligence programs and drugs. From Marcus Garvey to Paul Robeson to Martin Luther King to Malcolm X to Fred Hampton, to the Black Panthers to heroin and crack, the FBI has worked to destroy black people. Includes interview with Darthard Perry, Ex-informer for the FBI.





Texas Wildfire Victim Returns To What Was Home (VIDEO) | Roland S. Martin Blog


Posted: 2011-09-07 14:24:38 UTC-05:00
Texas Wildfire Victim Returns To What Was Home (VIDEO) | Roland S. Martin Blog

David Mattingly accompanies a Texas homeowner who returns to find her house burned up by a wildfire.






Defense.gov News Article: Pentagon Raises Force-Protection Level for U.S. Bases


Posted: 2011-09-07 14:13:56 UTC-05:00
Defense.gov News Article: Pentagon Raises Force-Protection Level for U.S. BasesBy Cheryl PellerinAmerican Forces Press ServiceWASHINGTON, Sept. 7, 2011 – By Cheryl PellerinAmerican Forces Press ServiceWASHINGTON, Sept. 7, 2011 -- Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta has authorized raising the force-protection level for military installations mainly in the United States, Pentagon Press Secretary George Little said today.





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


