Marriage and Family: The Missing Dimension | United Church of God









Search this site: 













Login/RegisterI forgot my password 


 


Home


Information



About United Church of God
Fundamental Beliefs
God's Holy Day Plan
Feast of Tabernacles
Council of Elders
Booklet: This is the United Church of God
Press Relations


Languages
Arabic
Chinese 中国
Deutsch
Eastern European
Español
Français
Italiano
Nederlands
Português
Svenska


International Offices
Australia 
British Isles 
Caribbean
Canada
Germany 
Italy 
 
Mexico 
Netherlands 
New Zealand 
Nigeria
Philippines 
Southern   Africa 




Resources
Website Help
Holy Day Calendar
Published Authors
Keyword Tags



Other Websites
Ambassador Bible Center
Council of Elders
Feast of Tabernacles
Free Bible Study Guides
Good Works Program
United Youth Camps
UCG Members Site


Clean Food Recipes
View All Recipes
By Name
Search by Ingredient


Find a Congregation
Search by Zip Code
View All Congregations





Media



Study Resources
Bible FAQ
UCG Bible CommentaryFormerly the Bible Reading Program
12 Lesson Bible Study Course
Bible Study Guides
Teen Bible Study Guides
This is the Way messages
Archived Magazines
Article Reprints
Online KJV Bible
Sabbath School Curriculum


Video/Audio
Sermons
Beyond
Today Programs
Beyond
Today Commentaries
Archived Good
News Radio Programs
Archived Good
                                    News Commentaries


Commentaries
UCG Commentary
Vertical
      Thought
World
       News & Prophecy


Blogs
 View Blog Homepage
 Longitude Blog
Inside United: Realtime


Topics



Christian Living
Addictions
Bible Study
Conversion
Education
Entertainment
Fasting
Faith
Fruit of the Spirit

Leadership
 
Health
Meditation
Personal Appearance
Prayer
Relationships
Service
Sin
Sex
Suffering


Doctrinal Beliefs
Baptism
Clean and Unclean Meats
Death
Difficult Scriptures
Faith
Family of God
God the Father
God's Church
 
God's Law
Gospel
Heaven and Hell
Human Nature
Jesus Christ
Kingdom of God
Predestination
Repentance
Resurrection
 s
    Sabbath
Satan
Soul
The Holy Spirit
The Spirit World
Tithing
Word of God


Holy Days
God's Holy Days
Passover
Unleavened Bread
Pentecost
Feast of Trumpets
Atonement
Feast of Tabernacles
Last Great Day
 
Man's Holidays
Valentine's Day
Easter
Halloween
Christmas




Marriage and Family
Choosing a Mate
Divorce
Parenting
Relationships
Romance
Finances


News and Prophecy
Conflicts and War
Economics
End Times
Fulfilled Prophecy
Governments
Natural Disasters
Rapture
Restoration
World Regions


Science
Archaeology
Creation
Evolution
God in Science


The Bible
Background of the Bible
Bible Discoveries
Bible History
Biblical Personalities
Proofs of the Bible


Youth
Career Planning
Entertainment
Friends
Peer Pressure
School
Self Esteem
Teen Bible Study





Publications



Beyond Today TV
About
Program Archive
TV Stations
Commentary


Good News Magazine
AboutArticles
Issue Archive
Archived Radio Program
Archived
                        Video Commentary


World
           	           News & Prophecy
About
Articles
Archived Issues
Archived Seminars
Archived Commentary


Vertical Thought
About
Archived Issues
Questions & Answers
Commentary



United News
About
Archived Issues
Latest UCG News


Virtual Christian Magazine
AboutArticles
Archived Issues


BookletsView All Booklets
Why Does God Allow Suffering?
Heaven and Hell: What Does the Bible Really Teach?
Are We Living in the Time of the End?
Sunset to Sunset: God's Sabbath Rest

Bible Study Course 
View All Lessons
Lesson 1: Why The Bible is the Word of God
Lesson 2: The Word of God - The Foundation of Knowledge
Lesson 3: Why Did God Create Mankind?
Lesson 4: Why Does God Allow Suffering?

 

Contact




Contact Form
Email Subscription
RSS Feed
Find a Congregation
Online Donations
Address Change
Renew Subscription
Cancel Subscription














Table of Contents
Read more about Marriage and Family
Order Booklet!
 








Marriage and Family: The Missing Dimension





Download Booklet Adobe PDF Format (.pdf) Electronic Publication Format (.epub) Mobipocket Format (.mobi)
 
Find on other sitesApple iBook (iPad, iPod)

The joy of a happy marriage blessed with loving, respectful children is a dream of most men and women. Traditionally, marriage has been an exclusive bond between a man and a woman. Yet in recent years this pattern has been changing...
 
Contents:




Introduction - Marriage and Family: The Missing Dimension


"Didn't the LORD make you one with your wife? In body and spirit you are his. And what does he want? Godly children from your union" (Malachi:2:15And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth., New Living Translation).




Marriage and Family: The Spiritual Significance


To understand the spiritual significance of marriage and family, we must turn to God, our Creator, to learn what He had in mind in making the human race. 




God's Instruction Manual for Marriage


Marriage is one of God's most wonderful gifts to mankind. It is a treasure worth working on, cherishing and sustaining. His instructions are as valid today as ever.




Dating Do's and Don'ts


Everyone knows that in most cultures dating is a prelude to marriage. But what many don't know is that how we date greatly influences the kind of marriage we will have. The way we conduct ourselves while dating is an excellent indicator of the commitment we will have to a future relationship and an indicator of the level of happiness we will enjoy.




Choose Your Love Story


God's beautiful picture of sexuality is for us to refrain from having sex until we are married and then to only enjoy sex with the person to whom we are married (1 Corinthians:6:18Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.; Exodus:20:14Thou shalt not commit adultery.). 




Handling Those Touchy Situations


To help you establish godly standards, consider the following advice given by a panel of young Christians between the ages of 20 and 30. 




What to Say When Things Are Going Too Far


Here's some examples of things to say when your relationship is going to far.




Popular Sexual Myths


Given all the confusion that exists today regarding sex, it's important for us to understand some of the most common but mistaken ideas about this subject. 




At What Age Should We Marry?


The Bible does not indicate that there is a specific age at which it suddenly becomes appropriate for us to marry.




Is Homosexuality Acceptable to God?


The acceptance of homosexuality as an equally valid lifestyle is rapidly growing in Western culture. Yet God tells us that sex was designed for only one relationship—within marriage, exclusively between a man and a woman.




Men's and Women's Vulnerabilities


When it comes to temptations to have sex, men and women, in general, face different challenges.




What If You've Made a Mistake?


When it comes to sex, people make mistakes—both premarital and extramarital. The biblical way to cleanse one's conscience is to repent—that is, stop breaking God's law.




Is Abortion the Answer to Unwanted Pregnancy?


Many people today consider abortion to be a woman's right to control her body—specifically her reproductive rights. What does the Bible say?




Divorce-Proof Your Marriage


Because so many marriages—particularly in modern Western countries—end in failure, couples trying to live godly lives and make their relationships last will look for ways to protect and preserve their marriages.




The Different Kinds of Love Mentioned in the Bible


The Greek language in which the New Testament was written uses several words translated "love." The first two listed below are found in the New Testament. Understanding their meanings helps us better comprehend God's expectations of us.




Was Sex Intended Solely for Procreation?


Does the Bible prohibit sexual relations within marriage purely for pleasure? 




Our Children: Gifts of God in a Hostile Environment


The Bible tells us that children are a blessing from God, and most couples readily welcome them into their families. Human reproduction is one of life's most treasured and memorable experiences. Consider how God intended for this beautiful event to transpire.




The Epidemic of Missing Fathers


Dr. Wade Horn, assistant secretary for children and families in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, addressed the connections between fatherlessness and criminal behavior in a 2002 speech. 




Bringing Up a Moral Child


Many parents, including single parents, are raising well-adjusted, moral children who successfully enter adulthood. Why are these families successful when so many others are not? 




Measuring Influence on Our Children


While parents have the opportunity to be the greatest influence on their children's lives, this doesn't always happen. 




Proverbs and Proper Training


Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it.




Discipline With Encouragement


Discipline with encouragement may seem like an oxymoron. How could discipline possibly be encouraging? Isn't it always painful and depressing?




Sibling Rivalry


How can sibling rivalry be minimized?




Single-Parenting Success


Is it possible to successfully raise godly children even as a single parent?




The Value of Consequences


Should chilldren be held responsible for bad choices or decisions?




Creating Quality Time


It's important to set aside quality time to spend with your children.




The Seasons of Parenting


There are three seasons in raising children, and one final season that is our goal. Each season is a phase where a child needs a certain type of parenting.




Personality Differences and Temperament


Because each child is a unique human being in terms of the way he or she thinks and acts, parents often wonder whether these differences should affect their parenting. 




Family Resources for You and Your Children


Resources to encourage you as a parent.




A Foretaste of Tomorrow


The desire for a happy, lasting marriage blessed with children who grow up to be successful, morally responsible adults is truly the universal dream.



 


Booklet
Choosing a Mate
Divorce
Parenting
Romance
Finances
Marriage and Family







Contents

Introduction - Marriage and Family: The Missing Dimension
Marriage and Family: The Spiritual Significance
God's Instruction Manual for Marriage
Dating Do's and Don'tsAt What Age Should We Marry?
Choose Your Love Story
Handling Those Touchy Situations
Is Abortion the Answer to Unwanted Pregnancy?
Is Homosexuality Acceptable to God?
Men's and Women's Vulnerabilities
Popular Sexual Myths
What If You've Made a Mistake?
What to Say When Things Are Going Too Far

Divorce-Proof Your MarriageThe Different Kinds of Love Mentioned in the Bible
Was Sex Intended Solely for Procreation?

Our Children: Gifts of God in a Hostile EnvironmentMeasuring Influence on Our Children
The Epidemic of Missing Fathers

Bringing Up a Moral ChildCreating Quality Time
Discipline With Encouragement
Family Resources for You and Your Children
Personality Differences and Temperament
Proverbs and Proper Training
Sibling Rivalry
Single-Parenting Success
The Seasons of Parenting
The Value of Consequences

A Foretaste of Tomorrow
 


More Information






        Categories:
      
Choosing a Mate
Divorce
Parenting
Romance
Finances
Marriage and Family






Share




 









 








Download All Booklets


	Download all 34 booklets to your computer or mobile device. Choose from the following formats:

Download PDF format - (29MB .zip file)

Download ePUB format - (14MB .zip file)

Download Mobi format - (20MB .zip file)

About the ebook formats...
	The ePUB booklets can be read on several types of ebook readers and tablets, including the Apple iPad (iPhone & iPod Touch) Barnes & Nobles Nook (Nook Color), Samsung Galaxy Tab (using Kobo) and Sony Reader. The Mobi booklets can be read on e-readers and mobile devices (phones), including the Amazon Kindle, Cybook, iRex Digital Reader, iLiad, Hanlin and BeBook. Download the Mobipocket Reader for mobile phones (Blackberry, Windows Mobile, Symbian & Palm operating systems).















Home
About United Church of God
Fundamental Beliefs
Press Relations
Web Site Help
Holy Day Calendar
Feast of Tabernacles Info
Other Sites
Ambassador Bible Center
Council of Elders Web Site
Good Works Program
United Youth Camps




Booklets
View All Booklets
Marriage & Family: The Missing Dimension
The Middle East in Bible Prophecy
The Book of Revelation Unveiled
What Happens After Death?
 
You Can Understand Bible Prophecy
Are We Living in the Time of the End?
Why Does God Allow Suffering?
Is the Bible True?
The Church Jesus Built




Publications
Beyond Today Television
Good News Magazine
World News and Prophecy
United News
Vertical Thought
Virtual Christian Magazine









   

     


     © 1995-2011 United
          Church of God, an International Association | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use 

Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. All correspondence
and questions should be sent to info@ucg.org.
Send inquiries regarding the operation of this Web site to webmaster@ucg.org.










X
Username or e-mail address: *

You may login with either your assigned username or your e-mail address.


Password: *

The password field is case sensitive.




Create new account
Request new password


Feedback



If you experience a bug or would like to see an addition on the current page, feel free to leave us a message.

This is not meant for comments on the content or questions.  We will not respond to any feedback posted here.  If you want a response please use the comment functions.
Message: *









