Texas wildfires evacuees anxious to return home | abc13.com


























Map of wildfires burning across Texas right now | ACTIVE FIRE DATABASE







KTRK-TV Houston, TX








News



iWitness
Houston News
Your Community News
Texas News
US World News
Business
Entertainment
Bizarre
Action 13 Consumer
HealthCheck
13 Undercover
Politics
Crime Tracker
Hometown Live
ABC13 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Most Popular
Technology
In Focus
People's Lawyer
In the Classroom
Life's Better Outside






Weather    
         









78°
P/CLOUDY





Weather Home
Live Mega Doppler Radar
Street-Level Weather
Hurricane Central
Weather Blog
MORE TOPICS +


Watches/Warnings
Weather Maps
ABC13 First Alert
National Weather
Weather Photos






Video & Photos



Most Popular Video
Weather Photos
Live Video
Slideshows
Send ABC13 Your Photos
MORE TOPICS +


Video by Category






Use It



Traffic
Your Horoscope
Lottery Results
ABC13 Travel Guide
Live Well Network
ABC Shows
What's on TV
Contests
News Team
Inside ABC13
Jobs at ABC13
MORE TOPICS +


Around Town
My ABC13
Games






Marketplace



Houston Area Jobs
Classifieds
Find Local Businesses
Coupons






























Local
Texas wildfires evacuees anxious to return home
Saturday, September 10, 2011
















 


Related Video
All Live Video :  All Video » 





















 



Bastrop residents grateful for assistance

Firefighters continue to make progress in Bastrop

Bastrop fire detroys nearly 1,400 homes

Bastrop wildfire destroys hundreds of homes

raw video: Flames spread quickly at TX park

Firefighters gain ground on Bastrop fire

Images of Bastrop fire devastation

Bastrop Co. fires continue to burn

Bastrop County fire threatens wildlife

Fire in Bastrop County claims two lives

More fires burning near Bastrop

Worst fire in Texas rages in Bastrop County

 
 
Tags:local


Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 

  

BASTROP, TX -- 
After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos got the news Saturday: His house had burned down in the blaze. 	
Related ContentPhotos:  New images of wildfires tearing through TexasStory: Frustration grows for Texas wildfire evacueesStory: Firefighters look to deal big blow to Bastrop blaze Story: Perry calls on elite team to lead wildfire searchStory: Fires continue to burn across the stateStory: Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire containedStory: What to bring in an evacuationStory: Support from Salvation ArmyMore: Track current wildfires in TexasMore: Viewer photos/videos of wildfires   But Gaydos -- who has been living at a hotel with his wife, two children and father since fleeing the fires nearly a week ago -- still can't return to his neighborhood to see what is left of his home. Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting the wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots have kept thousands of residents, including Gaydos, from returning home. Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to know when they could return to their homes -- or what remains of them -- in the Bastrop area, located about 30 miles east of Austin. Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said officials hope to get other residents back as soon as possible, but he didn't know how long that would take. "This is day seven, tensions are high," McDonald said. Texas is in the midst of one of its worst wildfire outbreaks in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate. A 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties about 40 miles northwest of Houston has burned for several days, destroying about 60 homes and forcing some people to evacuate. The forest service has said about half the fire was behind containment lines and no towns or cities were threatened. Most homes in the area are scattered in the forest, ranchland and in small subdivision clusters. In Bastrop, officials said Saturday the fire was about 50 percent contained after almost a week of burning. Though residents were anxious to get to their neighborhoods, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said authorities need to be certain they are safe before residents would be allowed back. Residents from one 700-acre area that includes about two dozen homes were allowed to return home Saturday, but other areas remained evacuated as crews worked to put out potentially dangerous hotspots. "Everybody hang in there and we'll get you back home as soon as possible," Pickering said. Fire crews continued battling hot spots on Saturday, but didn't expect major wind gusts through the night. But authorities also cautioned that the toll from the fires could get worse. McDonald said he expected the number of homes destroyed by the fire to increase from the current 1,400 tally as more assessments are completed. A spokesman for the team of state, local and federal agencies also said the number was expected to rise. "We haven't even hit our toughest area," McDonald said Saturday afternoon, adding that teams haven't had a chance to go in and "count those houses or get a tally because of the amount of heat that's in the area." In the meantime, residents are staying wherever they can -- makeshift shelters at churches, friends' and relatives' homes, even cars in nearby parking lots. "There are some who are actually picking out apartments," said Sean McGahan, pastor of New Beginnings Church in Bastrop. "If you haven't already started, you're probably behind the curve." Next week, Gaydos and his family will move into a mobile home in Bastrop while they decide whether to rebuild. Before finding out Saturday on a fire department website that his home had been destroyed, Gaydos spent much of the past week so worried about his home that he couldn't sleep. "You wake up in the middle of the night and you can't go back to sleep," Gaydos said. "I've been going to work early just because I'm already up." Gov. Rick Perry's office said families whose homes have been destroyed will receive seven-day hotel vouchers from a nonprofit organization as well as assistance from the state. The vouchers were welcome relief for Russell Horn, who said the $104 nightly hotel bill for him, his wife and two boys had become too costly. The 32-year-old electrician said their home had been destroyed by the fire and he had only been able to get out wearing an undershirt and shorts. "There aren't too many places you can go just wearing that," Horn said. On Friday, White House officials announced that President Barack Obama had signed a federal disaster declaration for Texas. The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs. Perry unexpectedly canceled plans Saturday to visit areas hit by the Bastrop wildfire and hold a news conference because of "logistical issues" with him arriving on time, but he was in Austin and keeping in regular contact with officials on the wildfires, his spokeswoman said.        ----------------------------------------------  Donations are being accepted at a physical address and by mail:   Rundell Business Park Bastrop (supplies donations) 704 Highway 71 West 512-332-8807 (for more info)  BCMA (monetary donations) P.O. Box 856 Bastrop, TX 78602             


    (Copyright ©2011 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more Local »

Tags:local



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published



Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire contained

10 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Opening statements to begin in doctor assault trial

12 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Social agencies report on Hurricane Ike spending

42 min ago
Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Opening statements to begin in doctor assault trial
12 min ago


Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire contained
10 min ago


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box
43 min ago


Two arrested in 'movie-like' heist of jewelry store



Social Security likely to be big issue for Perry in FL debate



Legacy of 9/11 victim lives on through book



Perry assailed by GOP rivals, defends his record 



Ahmadinejad: US hikers could be freed in days
8 min ago


Social agencies report on Hurricane Ike spending
42 min ago


9/11 memorial plaza in NYC opens to public



Surgeon on trial for allegedly assaulting his wife



Photos: New images of wildfires tearing through Texas



abcnews: No mile-high hanky panky in 9/11 scare, says FBI



raw video: Dramatic rescue from fiery wreck in Utah



MORE:
iWitness | FREE apps | Lottery | Hurricane

 


1.


Casey Curry's Tuesday weather forecast


2.


Dramatic rescue from fiery wreck in Utah


3.


9/11 memorial opens to the public for first...


4.


Mont. Co. residents return to survey fire...

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 





Pizza 101 and more...
Low Country Boil Party
Apostle Islands





Miss Universe 2011 crowned - Find out who won...
ABC's 'Bachelor Pad' finale - See who won
Mary Fickett of 'All My Children' dead at 83


 
 


abc13.com News Links




						
					
						FREE ABC13 iPad app


						
					
						FREE iPhone, Android, Blackberry app


						
					
						Find news in your neighborhood


						
					
						What are people clicking on the most?


						
					
						Send News photos and videos to news@abc13.com

 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box

Most Viewed Video


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box

Most Viewed Photos


New images of wildfires tearing through Texas




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc13.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KTRK-TV/DT Houston, TX. All Rights Reserved.

























