Latest Houston wildfire news: Evacuations ordered in Grimes County, Montgomery County and Waller County due to wildfires | abc13.com


























Map of wildfires burning across Texas right now | ACTIVE FIRE DATABASE







KTRK-TV Houston, TX








News



iWitness
Houston News
Your Community News
Texas News
US World News
Business
Entertainment
Bizarre
Action 13 Consumer
HealthCheck
13 Undercover
Politics
Crime Tracker
Hometown Live
ABC13 Sports &
MORE TOPICS +



Most Popular
Technology
In Focus
People's Lawyer
In the Classroom
Life's Better Outside






Weather    
         









78°
P/CLOUDY





Weather Home
Live Mega Doppler Radar
Street-Level Weather
Hurricane Central
Weather Blog
MORE TOPICS +


Watches/Warnings
Weather Maps
ABC13 First Alert
National Weather
Weather Photos






Video & Photos



Most Popular Video
Weather Photos
Live Video
Slideshows
Send ABC13 Your Photos
MORE TOPICS +


Video by Category






Use It



Traffic
Your Horoscope
Lottery Results
ABC13 Travel Guide
Live Well Network
ABC Shows
What's on TV
Contests
News Team
Inside ABC13
Jobs at ABC13
MORE TOPICS +


Around Town
My ABC13
Games






Marketplace



Houston Area Jobs
Classifieds
Find Local Businesses
Coupons






























Local
Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire contained
Updated at 06:24 AM today
















 


Related Video
All Live Video :  All Video » 





















 



Firefighters get upper hand on tri-county wildfire

Mont. Co. residents return to survey fire damage

Fire evacuees at shelters ready to go home

Tri-county fire: Progress made in Waller County

Tri-county wildfire victims unite in prayer

Tri-county wildfire continues to burn

iWitness: On the front line against fire in Magnolia

iWitness: Viewer video of chopper getting water in Magnolia

More road closures imposed due to wildfire

Community uniting to help wildfire evacuees

Magnolia trying to return to normalcy

Lack of water, high winds complicate wildfire fight

 
 
Tags:local


Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo













 

  

GRIMES COUNTY, TX (KTRK) -- 
The wildfire in the three-county area of Montgomery, Waller and Grimes counties is still burning, but the situation appears to be improving.	
Related PhotosNew images of wildfires tearing through TexasView all 102 photos    The Texas Forest Service said the tri-county fire was 85 percent contained on Monday and they hope to have it fully contained today.   Montgomery County officials have crews out looking for fires and heavy equipment widening the fire breaks, but there are no fires of immediate concern right now.    Several fire crews have been released from duty.  The heavy equipment remains on site in case of flare ups.  So far, 60 homes have been destroyed and 23 have been damaged. The majority of losses were in Waller County.  In Montgomery County seven homes were destroyed and one damaged.  Multiple out-buildings, such as sheds, were damaged.  Officials say they are seeing continued improvement in efforts to get the blaze under control, but fire danger remains elevated and flare-ups can occur at any time, especially if the wind picks up and the current weather trends continue.       Related ContentMore: Viewer photos/videos of wildfiresMore: How to help wildfire victimsMore: Track current wildfires in TexasStory: 9/11 firefighters battling Tri-county blazeStory: Animals find refuge from Tri-county wildfireStory: What to bring in an evacuationStory: Grass fire burns in east HoustonMore: Evacuated communities/sheltersMore: Evacuation map from Mont. Co. Sheriff's OfficeMore: Montgomery County Office of Emergency Management website   TUESDAY  DEVELOPMENTS    There are 7-day emergency hotel vouchers available for residents who've been displaced by the tri-county fires. You have to apply for those volunteers from the Brazos County Community Action Agency are scheduled to be in Grimes, Montgomery and Waller counties today to take those applications.    FEMA will step in to provide long-term temporary housing for people who lost their homes. Emergency hotel vouchers good for up to 7 days will also be available to fire victims.    Families who meet certain federal income requirements can receive flexible assistance cards, to cover essentials.      MONDAY DEVELOPMENTS   Fire crews expect to have the blaze 100 percent contained by Tuesday.  On Tuesday, the Brazos Valley Community Action will give out flexible assistance cards that fire victims can use to cover essential expenses.     The hotel/motel voucher program that was limited to Bastrop will soon be made available for fire victims in Montgomery, Waller and Grimes county. Details to come. Grimes County officials say the Texas Forest Service now shows the Riley Road fire to be the No. 3 priority fire in Texas and the nation.   The blaze had burned nearly 19,000 acres as of Sunday night, but that is less than the 21,000 authorities originally thought were affected.  According to the Texas Forest Service report, no additional acreage was lost in the past 24 hours.    All roads have reopened in Montgomery County.  Officials expect those that are open only to residents to reopen to everyone by the end of the day.  The command center at Magnolia West High School is slowly shutting down.  In Waller County, the following streets are now open. This would include businesses on FM 1488 west of Bowler Road. Fieldstore Road from FM 1488 south to Joseph and Joseph Road from Fieldstore Road  East to Hegar Road. LFM 1488 from Fieldstore Road east to Hegar Road. Joseph Road North to Country Lane Estates. (Everything north of the intersection of Joseph Road and Country Lane Road (East and West) will be remain CLOSED)   The remaining areas and roadways that have been closed will REOPEN today at 12:00 PM.   These include FM 1774 and FM 1486.  FM 1486 will be open to residents only and identification will be required.   Returning residents should remain cautious and remember the burned areas can contain hazards.  Trees and tree limbs can fall without notice.  Stay alert and take appropriate precautions.      SUNDAY DEVELOPMENTS   Montgomery County  The following roadways and areas are OPEN for entry to residents: Ranch Crest, Woodland Lakes, Alford Estates, Magnolia West, Wisteria Farms, River Park Ranch, Ruel Road and Old Hockley Road south to Nichols Sawmill Road.  F.M. 1488 will be opened west to Woodland Lakes where there will be a checkpoint for residents to pass on to Ranch Crest. F.M. 1774 will be open to F.M. 1486. Crown Ranch residents can return into the subdivision but must enter on F.M. 1486 from Jackson Road.  If the evacuation has been lifted in your area, be aware that identification will be required to re-enter these roads and residential areas.  Montgomery County residents re-entry advice: Electricity and water may not work; Downed power lines may be present; Residents are not encouraged to remain after dark; Roads may be subject to closure due to safety concerns from smoke; Anyone choosing to remain after dark should remain at their property; Register with Code Red to receive alerts with any additional information; This is an ongoing event and you may be asked to leave again should conditions change; Trees and tree limbs can fall without notice. Helpful links: Montgomery County 9-1-1; Montgomery County Emergency Management; Emergency Management on Twitter; and Montgomery County Fire Marshal's Office on Facebook.   The following subdivisions and streets in Montgomery County remain evacuated and closed to any re-entry until further notice: F.M. 1774 from F.M. 1486 to the Waller County Line and F.M. 1486 from F.M. 1774 north to Jackson Road. Reassessment of those areas will continue, but at this time, active fires and heavy use of equipment is underway.  All Magnolia ISD and Waller ISD classes will resume tomorrow.  Bulldozers are being used to create fire breaks and many areas in Montgomery County are showing signs of progress.  Any increase in wind velocity greatly enhances the possibilities of fire flare-ups and hampers extinguishing measures.  Afternoon fire containment and/or expansion will affect the time frame to open evacuated areas.   Utility companies are being allowed access to certain areas in Montgomery County to begin assessments to restore those services.   Magnolia Volunteer Fire Department is no longer accepting donations. If you would like to make a monetary donation, contact the office at 281-356-3288 or 281-356-3288.      Waller County  Waller County has posted maps on its website to indicate the current fire boundaries and the evacuation zone. These will be updated as available from the Texas Forest Service.  Officials say the mandatory evacuation zone for Waller County is all areas east of F.M. 362 and north of the Waller/Harris County line (Spring Creek) to the Montgomery and Grimes County lines.  There will be no re-entry into the evacuation zone until the fire has been completely extinguished. In Waller County, the following streets will be open at 5pm today (Monday). This would include businesses on FM 1488 west of Bowler Road.  Fieldstore Road from FM 1488 south to Joseph and Joseph Road from Fieldstore Road  East to Hegar Road. LFM 1488 from Fieldstore Road east to Hegar Road. Joseph Road North to Country Lane Estates. (Everything north of the intersection of Joseph Road and Country Lane Road (East and West) will be remain CLOSED)   The following Waller County streets will be OPEN: Pinewood Valley, Hargrave, All of Country Lane East, All of Country Lane West, Oak Hollow up to Rolling Hills, Cherry Hill, Walnut Hill, Fox Hollow, Deer Brook, Brook Hollow, Bent Wood, Cedar Hill, Ashley, Lake View, Brook Hollow Ct. and Lake Forest Blvd.  The remainder of Oak Hollow and Country Lane Estates will REMAIN EVACUATED. Please remember this will be the only change in evacuation until an update on Tuesday, September 13, 2011. There is currently a discussion between local and state officials in regards to some type of opening of FM 1488 from Bowler Road East to the Waller County Line for pass through only.    Reports estimate 8,500 acres burned in Waller County since Friday. That number has remained the same since early Saturday with no further loss of acreage. Containment there is reported to be at 75 percent as of Sunday morning, holding steady since Saturday. There have also been no more structures damaged in the fire.  Waller County officials said one firefighters was injured overnight Friday. That firefighter was treated and released.   Waller County is asking people to hold off on new donations of anything except hot food. If you'd like to bring hot food for distribution, do so at 10:30am and 4:00pm. Deliver those to the Central Donation Center at the Waller County Road and Bridge Annex located at 775 Business 290E, Hempstead, 979-826-7745.   SATURDAY'S DEVELOPMENTS   Waller County Officials met Saturday night to discuss the process of opening evacuation zones.  Congressman Michael McCaul toured the area with Waller County officials.  Waller County officials made one arrest for attempt to re-enter the evacuation zone. The man was being held for public intoxication and running a road block.  The following areas/streets in Grimes County were OPENED: Lake Holly Hills/Mill Creek Subdivision, the area immediately behind the Texas Renaissance Festival (Renfaire Drive, Brittany Lane, Tammy Circle, Devin Court, CR 303), Clark, Magan, Lively, Carlton Speed Ranch Road, Crawford, Lonestar Road, Whipoorwhill Road, Country Lane, Pappas, Camelia, Azalea, Lakeshore, Winona Lane, Wyric Rd, Rustic Lane, Adler Road, Adler Circle, Rolling Hill Ln, Albin Circle, Walnut, Lars Circle, Longs Circle and Forrest Hills Subdivision (Pine Tree Court, Pine Tree Lane, Forrest Hills Lane and Willow Bend Lane). (Note: While Grimes County has reopened the streets in the Forrest Hills Subdivision, there is no access to it via Reids Prairie. Reids Prairie is in Waller County, which has not lifted any evacation orders.)  The following areas and streets continue to be under mandatory evacuation orders previously issued for Grimes County: Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road) and Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road).  Regarding animals and livestock, animals evacuated to the Waller County Fairgrounds are good to stay there until Thursday. Officials opened overflow facilities at the Old Hockley Auction Barn. If you are needing to evacuate animals or donate feed or animal supplies, please go to the Auction Barn, 36296 Business 290E in Hockley. Additionally, the animal shelter location for stray animals only is the Baker Vet Clinic, 21002 Briarmeadow Dr. in Prairie View.  If you had to evacuate and need your animals fed, please contact Baker Vet Clinic as well to seek assistance. It was confirmed Saturday night that primates are on the loose in Waller County. Waller County Animal Control officers are aware of and have had sightings of monkeys that had to be released during the evacuation. These are rescued monkeys and are not considered dangerous.  The Montgomery County Fairgrounds have become an additional option for equine animal overflow. They are open for equine and have trailer hookups.   SHELTERS  Human shelters  Montgomery County: Wildwood Methodist Church at 8911 F.M. 1488, Magnolia  Grimes County: Grimes County Expo Center  Waller County: First Baptist Church in Hempstead at 5th and Main Street  Magnolia, Waller and Grimes Counties: The Knights of Columbus Hall, 900 Mack Washington in Hempstead Red Cross shelter at St Johns Lutheran Church in Waller, 1613 Key Street -- 936-372-2903 Ron's Relay shelter for people and animals: 36009 Howell Rd. in Waller -- 979-921-0771 An Additional Red Cross Shelter is set up at the West Montgomery County Community Development Center, 31355 Friendship in Magnolia. Small animals can be brought with evacuees as long as they are brought with kennels and leashes. The owner must stay with the pet.   Animal shelters   The shelter in Grimes County is at the Grimes County Expo Center and Fairgrounds, 5220 F.M. 3455 in Navasota. The Waller County Fairgrounds are at capacity for taking in animals for shelter. No more animals are being accepted. Officials are opening overflow facilities at the Old Hockley Auction Barn. Strays will not be accepted at this facility. All livestock and other animals left at the fairgrounds will be moved to Old Hockley Auction Barn by next week because of the Waller County Fair in two weeks. If you are needing to evacuate animals or donate feed or animal supplies, please go to the Auction Barn, 36296 Business 290E in Hockley. A mobile vet clinic has been set up at Baker Vet Clinic in Waller County as well as tent hospitals for animals. Reports of mass euthanasia are false. Baker Vet Clinic is located at 21002 Briarmeadow Dr. in Prairie View. Strays are welcome. If you had to evacuate and need your animals fed, please contact Baker Vet Clinic as well to seek assistance. They also need donations of cat food, dog food, cat litter and food and drinks for the volunteers. Montgomery County Animal Shelter said that strays are brought in are only held for four days and then put up for adoption. So, if you have a displaced pet, please check there first: 936-442-7738 Magnolia Arena on Friendship Lane is available for horses and show animals. The Wharton County Youth Fair in Crescent, Texas is accepting evacuated livestock and folks in RVs. For more information, contact the Wharton County Youth Fair at 979-677-3350. Texas Blessings Animal Rescue has trailers to help move livestock to safety if needed. Wharton County Fairgrounds and Brackenridge at Edna are offering stalls and RV hookups for displaced animals and their owners. Please call us day or night if you need emergency help. (361) 588-2143 Sam Houston Race Park has offered stalls to anyone who needs them, you will need to bring your own bedding, buckets, feed, hay and webbing for the front of the stall. Call 281-807-8700 to arrange for someone to open the gate. Tula Bird Rescue of Houston is taking birds at their locations. Call 713-384-3714 or 281-753-7251 for information.  Ron's Relay shelter for people and animals: 36009 Howell Rd. in Waller -- 979-921-0771 Cypress and Tomball Banfield Pet Hospitals are taking evacuated animals for boarding. Please call other Houston clinics to confirm availability. Phone bank for all things animal-related in Waller County (injuries, lost, found, feeding, donations, volunteers, shelters, etc.): 832-544-2834, 281-889-0122, 281-889-1617.    EVACUATED NEIGHBORHOODS  Montgomery Co.  The following subdivisions and streets in Montgomery County are currently evacuated and remain closed to any re-entry until further notice: F.M. 1774 from F.M. 1486 to the Waller County Line and F.M. 1486 from F.M. 1774 north to Jackson Road.  Grimes Co.  The following areas/streets continue to be under mandatory evacuation orders previously issued for Grimes County: Plantation Lakes (off Riley Road) and Saddle Creek Subdivision (off Riley Road).  Waller Co.  The remainder of Oak Hollow and Country Lane Estates will REMAIN EVACUATED. Please remember this will be the only change in evacuation until an update on Tuesday, September 13, 2011. There is currently a discussion between local and state officials in regards to some type of opening of FM 1488 from Bowler Road East to the Waller County Line for pass through only.   SCHOOL CLOSINGS/DELAYS  Magnolia ISD will re-open all campuses to classes on Monday, September 12. The district is mindful that some of students and staff are still displaced and may not be able to return at this time. Students who are unable to return will be excused. If necessary, further details will be posted at www.magnoliaisd.org.  Waller ISD will open all campuses as well. FOR QUESTIONS ON EVACUATIONS, ETC: DO NOT CALL 911 for evacuation, road closures, general or fire information. The 911 system should be used for actual emergencies.   For information, call:  Montgomery County:  936-523-3900, you can also follow their Twitter feed for any updates Grimes County: 936-873-2151, you can also check their Facebook page for any updates Waller County: 979-826-8282   DONATIONS/VOLUNTEERING  Waller County donations:  All donations are being centralized at the Waller County Road and Bridge Annex located at 775 Business 290E, Hempstead. Also, people wanting to prepare or distribute meals should coordinate through the Waller County Annex. Please contact Waller County Maintenance Director Robert Holloman at 979-221-4017.    For others looking to donate or volunteer, here is more information:  United Way:  All donations should be coordinated through the United Way at 281-292-4155 x 265.  United Way is taking in-kind and financial donations at HelpOurCounty.org. Click on Donate Goods.  To volunteer, go to HelpOurCounty.org, click on Volunteers and search for Fire 2011.  Red Cross:  The American Red Cross of Central Texas is responding to several fires. Click here to donate to the Red Cross here Click here to volunteer with the Red Cross here  Salvation Army:  Monetary donations to support Salvation Army Disaster Services can be made by:   MAIL -- Please send checks to The Salvation Army, PO Box 36607, Dallas, TX 75235 PHONE at 1-800-SAL-ARMY ONLINE at www.salvationarmytexas.org    


    (Copyright ©2011 KTRK-TV/DT. All Rights Reserved.)






Get more Local »

Tags:local



Comment Now
Email
Print
Report a typo

















Recently Published



Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire contained

8 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Opening statements to begin in doctor assault trial

10 min ago
Comment Now



Share










Social agencies report on Hurricane Ike spending

40 min ago
Comment Now



Share







 
 




Loading .....
 



Sponsored Content


 



Advertisement





Advertisement








Share this Story


Share











 




News Headlines
Video






Opening statements to begin in doctor assault trial
10 min ago


Firefighters hope to have tri-county fire contained
8 min ago


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box
41 min ago


Two arrested in 'movie-like' heist of jewelry store



Social Security likely to be big issue for Perry in FL debate



Legacy of 9/11 victim lives on through book



Perry assailed by GOP rivals, defends his record 



Ahmadinejad: US hikers could be freed in days
6 min ago


Social agencies report on Hurricane Ike spending
40 min ago


9/11 memorial plaza in NYC opens to public



Surgeon on trial for allegedly assaulting his wife



Photos: New images of wildfires tearing through Texas



abcnews: No mile-high hanky panky in 9/11 scare, says FBI



raw video: Dramatic rescue from fiery wreck in Utah



MORE:
iWitness | FREE apps | Lottery | Hurricane

 


1.


Casey Curry's Tuesday weather forecast


2.


Dramatic rescue from fiery wreck in Utah


3.


9/11 memorial opens to the public for first...


4.


Mont. Co. residents return to survey fire...

All Live Video :  All Video » 
 





 





Pizza 101 and more...
Low Country Boil Party
Apostle Islands





Miss Universe 2011 crowned - Find out who won...
ABC's 'Bachelor Pad' finale - See who won
Mary Fickett of 'All My Children' dead at 83


 
 


abc13.com News Links




						
					
						FREE ABC13 iPad app


						
					
						FREE iPhone, Android, Blackberry app


						
					
						Find news in your neighborhood


						
					
						What are people clicking on the most?


						
					
						Send News photos and videos to news@abc13.com

 





Most Popular
Go to Most Popular



Most Viewed Stories


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box

Most Viewed Video


Man finds crude 9/11 joke on his to-go meal box

Most Viewed Photos


New images of wildfires tearing through Texas




 




 
 



Advertisement



Advertisement






















abc13.com home
Site Map
RSS
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Technical Help
ABC.com
ABCNews.com


Privacy Policy
Interest-Based Ads
Safety Information for this site
Terms of Use
Copyright ©2011 ABC Inc., KTRK-TV/DT Houston, TX. All Rights Reserved.

























