The Seattle Times: Newsline

Problems viewing this e-mail? Click here for the latest headlines.







Home delivery
Contact us
Search archive













Tuesday, September 13, 2011
		
			













Local News

Influential Seattle blogger inflames left and right alike about Israeli security issues

Seattle blogger Richard Silverstein breaks stories — and stirs up virulent criticism — writing about Israeli security issues. He found himself in an espionage case involving leaked FBI wiretaps, the Israeli embassy and several congressmen.
We're conserving, but water rates may climb

 Seattle's residential water rates, among the nation's highest, have gone up almost 90 percent since 2000, but now Seattle Public Utilities is asking the City Council to raise those rates in stages an additional 25 percent by 2014. That would push the typical residential water bill from $31.70 per month to $39.71.
 Bicycle fatality raises safety issues

 At least 10 bicyclists have died so far this year across the state — eight in crashes with motor vehicles, one who accidentally fell into a stairwell and one who was struck by a train.
 High-court ruling could delay trial in Carnation slayings

Trials in the slayings of six people on Christmas Eve 2007 in Carnation may be delayed up to a year while the Supreme Court decides how the trial court will choose which of the defendants will first face a jury — and a possible death penalty.
 Seattle approves paid sick-leave requirement

 The Seattle City Council on Monday agreed to require businesses with at least five employees to provide paid sick leave.



Sports

Jerry Brewer
Keep your eyes covered: Seahawks might look ugly for a while

The Seahawks' movement on the offensive line and their decisions to shun continuity in favor of pure talent are moves that eventually should improve this squad. But "eventually" doesn't wear a watch, and so you're left to suffer in the meantime.
Super Bowl ref Bill Leavy to work Seahawks-Steelers game

Official criticized for calls in Super Bowl XV assigned by NFL to Seattle's game in Pittsburgh.













Will revenge be a factor in Huskies' game at Nebraska? Depends on who you ask

Washington coach Steve Sarkisian says revenge didn't play a factor when the Huskies beat Nebraska in the Holiday Bowl last season, and it won't be a factor when the teams play Saturday.
Bud Withers
Utah-USC ending was not the end for bettors

Back on the first Pac-12 Conference football media day in late July, USC coach Lane Kiffin was asked about the new college rule that would take points off the board if a showboating player acts out on the way to the end zone.
Sounders FC agree to deal with draft pick Bryan Meredith

Sounders FC signed goalkeeper Bryan Meredith on Monday, eight months after taking the 22-year-old in the second round of the MLS SuperDraft in January.



Editorials &amp Opinion

Ross Douthat / Syndicated columnist
The president's stimulus do-over: This time he heeded the warnings

President Obama's jobs speech to Congress, writes Ross Douthat, outlined what should have been the original economic blueprint: a short-term stimulus highlighted by a payroll tax cut, a medium-term push to overhaul the tax code and a plan for long-term entitlement reform.
Guest columnist
Republican presidential hopefuls alienate Hispanics

In their quest for support of their party's right wing in the primaries, top Republican hopefuls have given up on the Hispanic vote, writes columnist Andres Oppenheimer. That's likely to cost their party the 2012 elections.



Nation & World

Thousands visit after 9/11 memorial opens in NY
    

Some people wept. Some embraced. Others silently stared into the dark pools where the twin towers once stood as the 9/11 memorial at ground zero opened its gates to the public.
In Pa., somber funeral for remains from Flight 93
    

Three caskets of unidentified remains from the crash of United Airlines Flight 93 were buried Monday in a private ceremony that filled the air with bagpipes, taps and a three-gun salute.
Military jets safely escort NYC, Detroit flights
    

Fighter jets were scrambled to escort two commercial flights into New York City and Detroit "out of an abundance of caution" after crews reported suspicious activity on the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, officials said.
Obama to promote jobs plan in Boehner's home state
    

President Barack Obama is visiting a school undergoing a multimillion-dollar renovation to sell his proposal for creating more jobs. And it's no coincidence that the school is in Ohio, the home state of House Speaker John Boehner, a critic of the president's proposal to tax the rich to pay for his plan.
Government to expand E. coli tests in meat
    

The government is expanding its testing of E. coli in meat, a move that will hasten recalls and help authorities identify more foodborne illnesses.



Business & Technology

BofA's 30,000-layoff overhaul

Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, will likely lose that distinction as Chief Executive Brian Moynihan eliminates 30,000 positions over the next few years.
Everett's ATS faces $1.1M fine over 737 work

The Federal Aviation Administration has proposed a $1.1 million fine against Aviation Technical Services (ATS), an airplane maintenance and repair company based at Paine Field in Everett, for allegedly making improper repairs to 44 Boeing 737-300s operated by Southwest Airlines.
Late rally pushes stocks higher; 2nd gain in Sept.
    

A late afternoon rally pushed the stock market higher for only the second day this month. Major indexes spent most of Monday lower as investors worried that Greece could be edging closer to default.
Fired Yahoo CEO backs down, resigns from board
    

Carol Bartz has resigned from the Yahoo board of directors that she blasted for firing her as the company's CEO last week.
 AvalonBay starts 265-unit Ballard apartment project

AvalonBay Communities, one of the country's biggest apartment developers, has broken ground on a 265-unit complex in Ballard on the site of the old Sunset Bowl.



Arts & Entertainment

 Fran Liebowitz, Dan Savage on stage together

 Tickets on sale now for a March 2 appearance in Seattle by authors/pundits Fran Liebowitz and Dan Savage.
Lady Antebellum leads fall album releases

New albums out this week include Lady Antebellum's "Own the Night"; Blitzen Trapper's "American Goldwing"; The Gourds' "Old Mad Joy"; Roy Haynes' "Roy-alty"; and Wild Flag's eponymous debut.
Sting to play Paramount in December

Sting, legendary bass man and singer-songwriter of the trio The Police, performs at Seattle's Paramount Theatre Dec. 5, 2011. Tickets go on sale Sept. 26.
Composer Steve Reich remembers with 'WTC 9/11'

Steve Reich's disc "WTC 9/11" commemorates the 10th anniversary of the attack on the World Trade Center with stunning new work.
'Buffy's' Sarah Michelle Gellar on new TV series

Highlights on TV this week of Sept. 13 include new series "Ringer," with "Buffy"'s Sarah Michelle Gellar; the Mariners battling the New York Yankees; and "POV," a documentary about the Earth Liberation Front in Oregon.












Unsubscribe     
          Manage your newsletters     
          Contact us



Find us on Facebook

Follow us on Twitter








Privacy statement | 
                  Terms of service | 
                  Advertise with us | 
                  Newspaper delivery


The Seattle Times Company, 1120 John Street, Seattle, WA 98109


seattletimes.com |             
                  NWjobs |
                  NWautos | 
                  NWhomes | 
                  NWsource


Copyright © 2011 The Seattle Times Company






