Wildfire evacuees caught in a haze of anxiety - Houston Chronicle








(skip this header)



 








Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Make a Payment
MyChronRewards







Register
Sign In






Houston Weather |
    Houston Traffic |
    Mobile |
    E-edition







Tuesday, September 13, 2011
 
















chron.com

Web Search by YAHOO!

Businesses







HomeNewsSportsBusinessEntertainmentLifeTravelBlogsOpinion 

JobsHomesCarsClassifiedsCoupons 


Index





Houston & Texas
Houston weather
Houston traffic
Nation & world
Politics
Health
News bizarre
Deaths
Hurricanes
9/11 anniversary






















« Back to Article








Wildfire evacuees caught in a haze of anxiety
Jumbo jet helping crews battling tri-county blaze

By CINDY HORSWELL  and JIM PINKERTON, HOUSTON CHRONICLE

                                                                                Updated 10:54 p.m., Friday, September 9, 2011
            










            View: Larger
|
Hide







Magnolia resident Nancy Day shows her appreciation Friday to Brian Rhodes, who traveled from California to help the massive effort to beat back Texas' wildfires.
							Photo: Nick De La Torre
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Magnolia resident Nancy Day shows her appreciation Friday to...






Montgomery County law enforcement officers man a roadblock Friday on FM 1486 because of the heavy smoke drifting in from area wildfires.
							Photo: Nick De La Torre
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Montgomery County law enforcement officers man a roadblock...






Firefighters put out a fire on FM 1488 and Oakhill in Waller County on Friday.
							Photo: Nick De La Torre
										/ © 2011 Houston Chronicle
								Firefighters put out a fire on FM 1488 and Oakhill in Waller...



































 







Houston and Texas









Comments (0)











0


Share









Larger | Smaller




Printable Version




Email This



 Georgia (default) Verdana Times New Roman ArialFont



 




Page 1 of 1


A jumbo jet made repeated drops of 12,000 gallons of fire retardant Friday in hopes of slowing a tenacious wildfire north of Houston that had expanded overnight from 12,600 acres to 22,000 acres, the Texas Forest Service said.
The DC-10 tanker - assigned to Bastrop County in Central Texas, where the state's worst fire in history had devoured 34,000 acres - was diverted to attack the "particularly aggressive fire" burning across Montgomery, Grimes and Waller counties, said Carman Apple, Texas Forest Service spokeswoman.
The blaze is spreading so rapidly that it has tripled in size in just the last two days, reports show, and is the third-largest of the 95 active fires in the state.
"This fire is now the highest priority due to the expansion and the structures being threatened," said Ralph Collum, another agency spokesman.
As dusk approached Friday, the wildfire stood only 30 percent contained, disappointing given that containment had reached 85 percent shortly after the fire started on Labor Day, authorities said.
"But containment never means the fire is out," explained Apple. "It just means that there is a barrier keeping it from spreading and firefighters are able to enter the area and put out smaller smoldering fires that might respark."
In these record dry conditions, however, barriers are easily breached when a spark is blown into a new area and ignites the tinder-dry landscape, she said.
Waller County Commissioner Stan Kitzman praised the firefighters who are in the trenches, especially the volunteers.
"They're not getting paid and some have employers giving them a hard time for being here," Kitzman noted. "But our state couldn't exist without them."
One group of firefighters was positioned near the Pct. 2 Justice of the Peace office in western Waller County on Friday afternoon. Outside at a roadblock, dozens of residents had parked their pickups and cars under large trees, hoping county officials would let them at least have a quick peek at properties they had been ordered to leave on Monday.
In a few minutes, it became clear why authorities had closed the road.
Less than a mile away, the winds had fanned tall flames in the thick treeline along both shoulders of FM 1488, the scene of earlier battles with a tenacious fire that has leapt to life repeatedly since Monday.
On the south side of the farm-to-market road, firefighters clustered in small groups where they had parked their brush trucks, advancing on foot into the burning woods as far as their fire hoses would stretch. Two larger, distinctive red fire engines waited on the shoulder.
The road was splotched reddish-orange in sections, the residue of fire retardant dropped from airborne tankers deployed in the fight.
In one spot, a firefighter in a yellow jumpsuit was spraying a downed tree with water where it lay next to the pavement. A few yards away, another was tamping down the flames with a broom.
Next to them, a Texas Department of Transportation dump truck towing a trailer had stopped to off-load a bulldozer. As the flames were beat down, the dozer driver was ready to carve out a fire lane to protect dozens of houses on nearby Rice Road, a long curving route dotted with homesteads in the path of the fire.
Officials on Friday had to tell the evacuees to be patient, that the danger of fire was too close to allow them to return home.
Most people have been cooperative, said Fred Edwards, a Waller County assistant district attorney who was spending his day off helping answer residents' questions.
"They have been concerned about their pets, but they understand most of the people working out here are volunteers," Edwards said. "They are mostly just neighbors."
In Bastrop, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, acting as governor while Rick Perry is on the campaign trail, faced angry shouts and frustrated questions Friday from residents demanding to know why federal assistance hasn't arrived and whether the National Guard had been called to thwart possible looters.
Dewhurst told the crowd, jammed into the Bastrop convention center for a news conference, that he'd just signed a second letter to President Barack Obama requesting that he declare Texas a major disaster area.
Lisa Falkenberg contributed from Bastrop.
cindy.horswell@chron.com
jim.pinkerton@chron.com







 Printable Version


 Email This






Share

0















Wildfire evacuees caught in a haze of anxiety
 A jumbo jet made repeated drops of 12,000 gallons of fire retardant Friday in hopes of slowing a tenacious wildfire north of Houston that had expanded overnight from 12,600 acres to 22,000 acres, the Texas Forest Service said. 































Latest Slideshows








 Miss Universe 2011


 2011 NFL cheerleaders


 Texans 34, Colts 7



 
 











Latest Houston and Texas Headlines














			
				Record heat hits Houston, little rain likely





			
	Miss Universe sees crown a path to peace





			
	Perry stands his ground in GOP debate





			
	Houston killer should be spared, prosecutor says





			
	Clear winners  stumbles and oddities





 











Latest News











Record heat hits Houston, little rain likely
Broiling, record heat is likely today in the Houston region as a strong ridge of high pressure remains settled above the area.

No rain...


 

 







Latest Entertainment









Sundance CInemas sets November open date
Sundance Cinemas has set a Nov. 23 date for its grand opening at the downtown Bayou Place location formerly occupied by the Angelika. Rob...


 

 







Latest Sports










Associated Press, Jack Dempsey
					

Janikowski ties FG mark, Raiders top Broncos 23-20
DENVER - Sebastian Janikowski tied an NFL record with a 63-yard field goal and the Oakland Raiders beat the Denver Broncos 23-20...


 

 















Chron.com

Home
Houston & Texas
Nation & World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Life
Corrections
Blogs
Weather




City Brights
Traffic

Topics

Small Business
MomHouston.com
HoustonBelief.com
29-95.com



Neighborhoods

Aldine
Alief
Baytown
Bellaire
Clear Lake
Conroe
Cy-Fair
East End
Fort Bend
Heights
Katy




Kingwood
Lake Houston
Magnolia
Memorial
Montrose
Pasadena
Pearland
Spring
Tomball
West U
The Woodlands



Marketplace

Jobs
Homes
Cars
Coupons
Classifieds
Place a classified ad
Place a retail ad

Other Editions

Home Delivery
Mobile
RSS Feeds
e-Edition



Local Services

Air Conditioning Contractors in Houston
Car Dealerships in Houston
Cleaning Services in Houston
Family Doctors in Houston
Furniture Stores in Houston
Injury Attorneys in Houston
New Car Dealer in Houston
Real Estate Agents in Houston
Real Estate Attorneys in Houston
Restaurants in Houston



Services

 Help/Contact us Business directory
 Legal notices
 Privacy policy
 Terms & Conditions
 Employment opportunities
 Advertise with us
 Buy a banner ad





© 2011 Hearst Communications Inc.


   

        
        

        
    













