Lawmakers urge special wildfire session | KXAN.com







Newsletters
About Us
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 











News


Local
Williamson Co
Texas
National
Politics
Crime
Business
Investigations
Strange
Consumers
News Team
Weather


Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Currents
Hour by Hour
Local Webcams
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Weather Blogs
Traffic
Sports


Longhorns
High School
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
MLB
NFL
Auto Racing
Sports Blogs
Investigations
Health
Video
Community


Participate
Calendar
Dining
Living Green
Obituaries
XtheTXT
Entertainment


Photo
TV Schedule
NBC on Demand
The CW Austin
Blogs


Photo Video
Politics
Sports
Weather
onPolitix
Marketplace


Real Estate
Austin Experts
Austin Health
Coupons


Home : News : Politics : 















Taken at sunrise Saturday morning, Sept. 10, 2011 (Courtesy: Wendy Williams and pilot Terry Williams)

Regular Photo Size












Texas wildfires



More fire victims re-enterMore neighborhoods burned in Bastrop County fire re-open and …



Proper steps taken in disaster fundingThere is paperwork to deal with before any federal funds can be…



Bastrop schools healing togetherThe first day back to school after being away for a week was an…



Constable's funeral will be FridayThe funeral for Cpl. Kevin Aigner of the Travis County …








Advertisement







Lawmakers urge special wildfire sessionPerry's office says too soon for such a moveUpdated: Monday, 12 Sep 2011, 7:20 PM CDTPublished : Monday, 12 Sep 2011, 5:10 PM CDT
Josh Hinkle 

AUSTIN (KXAN) - Some lawmakers are urging Gov. Rick Perry to call a special session to address the wildfire devastation in the state. They sent a letter to the governor, hoping to revisit tapping the Rainy Day Fund for disaster use. During the regular and special sessions earlier this year, Democrats argued for using the fund to ease education cuts. At one point, Perry stated the need to save the money for a possible future natural disaster like a wildfire. “We don't know what the future holds,” said Perry's spokeswoman Lucy Nashed. “The Rainy Day Fund is definitely a backup and an option.” Nashed said Texas will first have to evaluate the total cost of wildfire response and recovery before making a decision about the Rainy Day Fund or a special session. “We can't budget for that ahead of time,” she added. “We need to know how much the federal government will reimburse, as well.” In the past, additional costs beyond what was appropriated to the Texas Forest Service – the main agency behind the state's wildfire fight – have been addressed in future legislative sessions. TFS officials said they will likely ask lawmakers in the 2013 legislative session to pay for firefighting efforts now. By the middle of last week, they estimated needing another $61.5 million to pay for firefighting costs that have piled up since the end of the legislative session in June. “We have money in the bank that can help right now if the Legislature has the political courage to take responsible fiscal action and appropriate it, rather than being cowed by special interest rhetoric,” said Rep. Donna Howard, D-Austin, of the Rainy Day Fund. Howard is one of 16 House members - all Democrats - who sent the letter to Perry. She also said $61.5 million in “unpaid, fire-related bills for fiscal year 2011” will put an unnecessary burden on many groups and individuals. “Unless the Legislature meets in special session, other states and local governments will not receive repayment for the resources they have incurred by assisting with the Texas fires, forcing them to carry this debt on behalf of Texas until at least mid-2013, or later," Howard said. More than $6 billion remains in the Rainy Day Fund. The state also has a Disaster Contingency Fund, which Perry's office said has about $49 million. That could also be an option.  



     Report an inappropriate comment.   






















Latest News



Drummer boy loses instruments, not hope


More fire victims re-enter


Proper steps taken in disaster funding


Sorting through all the donations


City budget will include tax increase





Lawmakers urge special wildfire session


Bastrop schools healing together


Constable's funeral will be Friday


Home after the fire, and it's all gone


Memorial set for Bastrop fire victim








More Stories »






























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page














Advertisement

















Most Popular Stories



Bastrop fire victims take on looters


Latest wildfire information


Smoking banned during ACL at Zilker


More fire victims re-enter


Constable's funeral will be Friday






More Stories »






Advertisement









 Site Tools RSS Feeds Weather Alerts Text Alerts Newsletters Twitter Facebook Mobile / iPhone KXAN iPulse News Widget 









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Investigations
Health
Video
Community
Entertainment
Blogs
onPolitix
Marketplace


FCC 388 Digital File
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
EEO Public File Report
LIN InteractiveAll content © Copyright 2000 - 2011 LIN Television of Texas, LP. All Rights Reserved.












