Back-to-School College Degree Options for You - Yahoo! Education








Your browser does not support iframe technology. Please try this page in the latest version of either Firefox or Internet Explorer


Home Careers Schools Articles Reference









Articles


Great Degrees for Going Back to School
Back-to-School Options for Adults
Back-to-School Degree Options for Adults
Back-to-School Options for Adults


 Get your back-to-school plan in motion by selecting the right degree program. By Chris Kyle    Tweet
   The school year is here again and so are those pesky to-do-lists.  But the most important decision of all - especially for adults - may be selecting the right degree or education program. Do you want to study business? How about health care or paralegal studies? Those, of course, are just a few of many exciting possibilities at today's colleges and universities. Ohio State, for example, offers more than 175 majors.  To help you decide what to study, we have spotlighted five popular degree options.  Degree #1 - Bachelor's in Health Care Administration  By studying health care administration, you could learn how decisions made by health care executives and personnel in a wide variety of medical settings can help heal patients, and even save lives. Another potential perk to earning this degree: Health care administration degrees were found to result in the highest percentage of full-time positions for graduates, according to the 2011 Georgetown survey.  Potential paths: Nearly three-quarters of health majors moved into health care management or support careers, according to a 2011 survey by Georgetown University's Center on Education and the Workforce. Another 12 percent ended up working in business management or office-related occupations. One possible career, according to the U.S. Department of Labor, is health services manager, a position with an average salary of $93,670.* Average completion time: Like most bachelor's degree programs, health care administration could take about four years - on average - to complete. For those who already have picked up some college credits or even an associate's degree along the way, your time to completion could be even quicker. Click to Find Health Care Administration Programs  Degree #2 - Bachelor's in Business Administration  Pop quiz: What's the most popular bachelor's degree in the United States? It's business administration, according to a 2011 study by Georgetown's Center on Education and the Workforce that analyzed the economic value of 171 college majors. Potential paths: One of business administration's many appeals may be that it could be applied in so many different careers and industries. Management, sales, and finance are the three most common destinations for business degree grads, according to the Georgetown report. When looking at possible career paths, the U.S. Department of Labor mentions everything from ad sales agent to management analyst, positions with an average salary of $55,020 and $87,260, respectively.* Average completion time: Most bachelor's in business programs can be completed in about four years, though this can vary depending upon the school and student. Click to Find Business Administration Programs  Degree #3 - Master's in Business Administration (MBA)  Already have a bachelor's degree but unsatisfied with your place at work? Going back to school for an MBA could be a potentially smart move if you have management ambitions.  Courses in areas like accounting, health care, marketing, and technology may help you develop skills that could add a boost to your resume and career prospects. Potential paths: Because many MBA students choose to specialize, it's possible to target a specific niche, or stay broad and focus on business administration. A general manager, to use just one career possibility, has an average salary of $113,100.*  Average completion time: Depending upon the business school you choose, you may be able to complete an MBA program in two years, whether it's online or in a more traditional classroom-based program. Click to Find MBA Programs  Degree #4 - Associate's in Paralegal Studies  Not everyone is fortunate enough to know exactly what career they want to pursue. But if you are planning on pursuing a paralegal career, you don't necessarily need a bachelor's degree.  One potential benefit of this earning an associate's degree in paralegal studies: career opportunities for paralegals are projected to jump 28 percent through 2018, the U.S. Department of Labor says. Potential paths: Most paralegals have an associate's in paralegal studies, or a bachelor's in another field and a certificate in paralegal studies, according to the Department of Labor. Paralegals have an average salary of $49,640.* Average completion time: Most paralegal studies students can expect about two years of education before receiving their associate's degree, though this can vary depending on the individual and school. Click to Find Paralegal Studies Programs  Degree #5 - Associate's in Medical Assisting  Are you considering going to school to improve your career prospects? You may want to consider preparing to pursue medical assisting opportunities. The U.S. Department of Labor projects that career opportunities for medical assistants are expected to climb 34 percent between 2008 and 2018. Potential paths: Medical assistant programs generally cover both administrative and clinical tasks, so you'll hopefully be ready to contribute from day one in a career as a medical assistant. According to the Department of Labor, most positions are in the offices of physicians, podiatrists, and chiropractors. The average salary for this position is $29,760.* Average completion time: Most associate's degree programs in medical assisting will take about two years. For those considering a certificate program, it's possible that your studies will last about a year, though this can vary depending upon your course load and program requirements. Click to Find Medical Assisting Programs *All salary info comes from the U.S. Department of Labor using 2010 average national estimates data. Average completion times represent the average and will vary by factors like full- or part-time status, student level of commitment, school, program, and more.


















More Articles »Related Articles










Degrees That Hiring Managers Want
Quick Paths To A New Career
Online Degrees - 5 Things to Consider
Job Market to Reboundfor College Grads
How to Land the Career of Your Favorite TV Character
7 Benefits Of Earning A College Degree
6 Careers With Rewarding Average Earning Potential
Best Time To Go Back To School
Switch Careers to Be Happier
How to Prepare for a New CareerWithout Quitting Your Day Job
How To Get The Career You Want
Earning Potential Rises for Class of 2011
Degrees That Employers Want
Is A Career-Focused Degree For You?
5 Tips for Choosing the Right Degree
How To Craft A Successful Career Plan
Breaking Down Your Career Options
Prepare For A Career in a Growing Field
Stable Career Options
5 Degrees Worth the Investment
Careers You Could Prepare For In Two Years or Less
Solo Act Career Options
6 Reasons to Go Back to School
Start a New Career at Any Age
Best Degrees for Career Flexibility
Back-to-School Options for You
Desirable Degrees For Hot Careers
5 Growing Health Care Careers
Best Careers For A Fresh Start
Top 5 In-Demand Degrees
5 Flexible Career Choices
Quick Career Education Programs
Best Degrees to Earn Online
Entry-Level Careers With High Earning Potential
Find Good-Fit Careers for Your Personality
Best Careers for Work-Life Balance
Degrees That Could Lead To Success
Careers For People Who Want To Make An Impact
How To Prepare For The Best Career
Careers For Smart People
One Year To A New Career
Lovable Careers With Great Earning Potential
Want A Career? The Right Degree Could Help
Degrees That Could Get You Noticed
What's The Hottest Career Field?Health Care
Most Satisfying Careers
Degrees That Are Linked To Good Hiring Odds
Hot Careers of the Future
Five Careers That Command Respect
Prepare for a Hot Career in Health Care!
Careers That Could Get You Out of The Office
Most Valuable Degrees
Degrees With High Average Earning Potential
One Year Career Plans
NASCAR Drivers' College Degrees Revealed
Is A Career-Focused Degree For You?
Careers That Are Built To Last
Career Strategies for Women
Careers for Outgoing People
Top Degrees for Making Money
Six Quick-Start Careers
5 Happy Career Options for You
Health Care Career Options for Everyone
Ways to Switch Careers Quickly
The Eight Most Popular Online Degrees
5 Great Reasons to Go Back to School
Quick Ways To Start A New Career
Online Education Advantages
How to speed up a career switch
5 Low-Stress Career Options
5 Degrees Even Busy People Can Earn
How to Prepare for a Flexible Career
In-Demand Degrees
5 Degrees for Thriving Tech Careers
Career Opportunities Grow Along with Apple Inc.
Popular Online Business Degrees
5 College Degrees that Matter to Employers
Best Careers for Take-Charge People
Get on Track to a New Career in Two Years or Less
Dreading Tuesday? Switch to a Satisfying Career
How to Upgrade Your High School Diploma
6 Trending College Degrees Worth Targeting
Great Degrees for Going Back to School
Education Options for Today's Economic Climate
Top Online Degrees for Switching Fields
Education to Revamp Your Career
Are Online Classes Right for You?
Career Makeover Ideas
Want to Turn Your Passion into Your Career?
Careers You Can Be Passionate About
Popular Online Degree Options for You
6 Booming Career Options
Finding Your Work-Life Balance
Career Game Changers
Best Value Degrees
7 Smart Career Options for You
It's Not Too Late for a New Career
Is A Bachelor's Degree Worth It?
Colleges Saying No To Students
Alternatives To A Four-Year Degree
Does Your College Major Matter?
The New "Back To School"
Five Promising Career Paths
Careers with Significant Earning Potential
Find the Fun in Five College Degrees
5 Degrees with Solid Potential
5 Rising Health Care Careers
Top 5 Industries Hiring Now
Business Careers in a Down Economy
5 Careers for Introverts
Higher Education Goes High-Tech
Boredom Bashing Careers
8 Fast-Track Career Options
Skills That Are Always In-Demand
Thriving Careers in High-Growth Industries
Six Ideas for Career Changes
Pro Athletes Get Schooled
Telecommuting Careers
See How You Could Boost Your Earning Potential
Rewarding Careers with an Associate's Degree
Flexible Careers With Great Earning Potential
Recession-Resistant Careers
5 Exciting Careers With Rewarding Earning Potential
Degrees That Could Be Good Investments
Degrees for the Next Decade
Where Will the Careers Be In 2011?
Most Rewarding Degrees
How You Could Get Hired
How To Get America's "Best" Careers
Mythbusters - Career Edition
How to Pick a MajorWith Great Earning Potential
Best Encore Career Options
Careers That Likely Aren't Going Away
Careers for People Who Don't Like People
Great Second-Act Career Options
Best Careers with a Two-Year Degree
Six Degrees With Great Potential
What Would You Change About Your Career?
Careers That Could Make You Happy
Careers That Allow Work-Life Balance
Careers Where Personality Can Prevail
So You Want To Change Careers?
How to Target Your Earning Potential
The Path To A Career with High Earning Potential
Cube-Busting Careers
College Degree Winners and Losers
Most Exciting Careers
Where Have All The Fun Gigs Gone?
New Careers That Are Coming of Age
Benefits of a College Degree:Higher Earning Potential... and Well Being
Thriving (and Dying) Careers
Big City Careers Shifting
Degrees That Could Be Worth It
Careers for TV and Movie Lovers
Careers With Staying Power



























Featured Schools











More Info »



More Info »



More Info »















Advertisement







Find A School











Degree Level


- Choose a Degree Level -
Associates
Bachelors
Masters
Doctorate
Certificate & Diploma


Category


- Choose a Category -
Creative Arts & Design
Fashion & Interior Design
Business
Nursing & Medical Assisting
Health Care & Human Services
Education & Teaching
Technology
Engineering & Technical Trade
Legal
Criminal Justice & Security
Culinary


Program


- Select a Category First -
Photography
Video Game Design
Graphic Design/Multimedia 
Computer Aided Design 
Animation
Film/Video/TV
Music & Audio Production
Web Design & Development
Fashion Merchandising
Fashion Marketing
Fashion Design
Interior Design
International Business
Business Administration
Accounting/Finance
Adminstrative Support
Human Resources
Marketing/Communications
Management
E-Business/E-Commerce
MBA
Operations/Six Sigma
Nursing Assistant
Nursing (ASN, BSN, MSN)
Licensed Nurse (LPN/LVN)
Registered Nurse (RN)
Patient Care & Therapy
Dental Assisting
Medical Assisting
Medical Technician
Phlebotomy
General Nursing/Medical
Medical Billing & Coding
Medical Transcription
Office/Administrative 
Health Care Administration
Massage Therapy & Fitness
Pharmacy
Beauty & Aesthetics
Psychology & Counseling
General Health Services
Special Education
Child Care/Child Education
K-12 Education
Curriculum & Instruction
Teaching Certificate
Education Leadership
Technology Support
Programming & Software
Network Administration
IT & Information Systems
Basic Computer Skills
Computer Science
Database Technology
Automotive/Motorcycle/Marine
Electronics
Aircraft/Aeronautics
Engineering
HVAC
Technical Trade
Paralegal
Legal Studies
Court reporting
Legal Administrative
Legal - General
Criminal Justice
Homeland Security
Police & Law Enforcement
Security Guard
Forensics/Crime Scene
Culinary Arts
Baking & Pastry
Restaurant Management


Classroom Preference


- Select Online or Campus -
Online
Campus
Online and Campus


Zip / Postal
























Home | Careers | Schools | Articles | Reference
Vantage Media LLC  collects the information you provide within this portion of the property.  Please read the Vantage Media, LLC Privacy Policy  for more information.

Yahoo! does not collect or use the information you may provide here. 
Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2011 Vantage Media, LLC. All Rights reserved.
Powered by Vantage Media










