10 Tips from College Admissions Officers on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Sunday, September 11, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS







10 Tips from College Admissions Officers



partner


by Woman's Day, on Tue Aug 30, 2011 12:25pm PDT


101 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse








        
        
        By Amanda
Greene 

10 Tips from College Admissions Officers

Between studying for the SATs, crafting the perfect application
essay and, of course, figuring out how to pay for tuition, college
prep can be tough on both teens and their families. That’s why we
spoke to admissions officers across the country to get the inside
scoop on ways students can improve their odds during the
application process. From scheduling interviews to applying early
action, read on for 10 tips from the people who decide who's
in—and who's not.
1. Don't limit your school
options.
While it’s exciting to have a top school in mind, if your child
only wants to apply to one institution, encourage her to broaden
her perspective. “Ultimately, students are going to be successful
at a number of different types of colleges,” says Jay Murray, director of Admissions
at Post University in Waterbury, Connecticut. “Plenty of
schools will offer the kind of academic opportunities that each
student is looking for, as well as give her the chance to grow
socially and intellectually.” Instead of targeting one specific
school, find out what your child is looking for and research places
that will fit those needs: Does she want to be a big fish in a
small pond or attend a school with thousands of students? How far
does she want to be from home? Does she see herself in a
traditional campus environment? By identifying what she's truly
seeking, your teen will be more open to exploring a variety of
schools.

See the six skills every teen should
learn.
2. A so-so SAT score won’t necessarily hold your child
back.
While some undergraduate institutions do have minimum SAT score
requirements, many do not. For most schools, standardized test
scores are just one piece of the puzzle that college admissions
officers look at. “Four years’ worth of grades is a far better
predictor of how someone’s going to perform than a three-hour
Saturday test,” says Patrick Winter, senior associate director of
Admissions at the University of Georgia in Athens, Georgia. “We’ve
admitted students who had average test scores but performed really
well in high school and took challenging classes; that tells us
that they’re performing above and beyond their abilities. It’s when
we see students with mediocre grades and strong test scores that
it’s a red flag.” He explains that these students may not be
working to their full potential, which makes them less desirable
candidates. Encourage high school students to challenge themselves
academically with their course load, and to prepare thoroughly for
the SATs—but not to lose hope if they aren’t pleased with their
results. Consistent participation in extracurricular activities and
school clubs also appeals to colleges; they are eager to admit
students who will bring curiosity, interest and leadership to their
campus.
3. Students should use their application essay as a
chance to show their personality.
“The essay is where students can distinguish themselves and enhance
all the other information that’s already on their application,”
says Winter. “They shouldn’t restate what’s already obvious based
on their grades or teacher recommendations, but rather use it as a
place to show who they really are.” According to Melanie Mickelson,
vice president of Enrollment Services at Wilkes
University in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, students should aim
to focus on one thing that is important to them. “If you’ve had a
life changing event, that’s great, but most people haven’t.” She
recommends students write about a person who has inspired them,
like a family member or a teacher. Or write about a class they
love, an important Eagle Scout project they worked on or recently
adopting a pet. Colleges want to know who you are, so students
should write as if they are talking to a real person and avoid
laundry lists of achievements and accomplishments as well as making
excuses for less-than-stellar grades.

Get parenting advice on how to deal with sexting, Facebook
and other modern teen issues.
4. Think long and hard before applying early
decision.
If your teen has his heart set on one school in particular, be sure
it’s a good fit before he applies early decision, which will bind
him to that school. Though it may seem like accepting an offer
early on will make the process less stressful, if he's
committed to a specialized program, but decides later on to change
his major (which most students do, according to admissions
officers), he'll end up being tied down to a school that isn’t
such a great fit after all. “Early decision is for students who
absolutely, positively know where they want to go—and who, at 17 or
18, knows that?” asks Murray. He explains that applying early
decision also limits your child's ability to compare
financial
aid packages. “By targeting one particular school, families are
essentially taking away their option to shop around for different
financial assistance packages.” Students who have a favorite school
in mind and are eager to make their college plans should consider
applying early action, which still provides advance notification
but doesn’t lock them in. However, these students should have
strong grades and test scores, since the early action applicant
pools tend to be very competitive.
5. Make the most of your campus visits.
It’s important to make every effort to visit each school that your
child is interested in. Not only will you get a feel for campus
life, but you’ll be expressing your interest in the school as well
as have an opportunity to ask important questions. “Don’t go and
ask questions that you could easily find answers to in a university
brochure or on the Web,” advises Murray. “Ask questions that are
really going to provide solid information about the institution,
like: ‘What percentage of students who apply early action enroll?’
‘How many students study my major?’ ‘What types of resources are
available to students in my major?’” By delving deeper, you’ll get
much more out of your visit than if you just follow the masses on a
walking tour. Joyce Ritz, assistant director of Undergraduate
Admissions at Loyola University Maryland in Baltimore, also
recommends asking if there are opportunities to sit in on lectures
as well as spend time driving around the surrounding town or city.
“Oftentimes the outside of campus is a great extension of college
life and could help you make a decision.”
Do
you make these 10 common driving mistakes?
6. Set up an interview.
Aside from the essay, an interview is another way for a student to
convey his or her personality to admissions officers, which is why
Murray recommends actively seeking them out. “Even if the school
your child is considering doesn’t offer them, see if they conduct
alumni interviews. Students should take every opportunity to put
themselves in front of someone who might be in a position to give
them the thumbs up.” Because one-on-one talks can be a source of
anxiety for teens, Winter recommends setting up mock interviews to
help them prepare. (It's a good idea for students to practice
with adults who aren’t their parents, in order to get a true
outsider’s perspective and feedback.) “We look for authentic
answers from students, so we would discourage too much ‘coaching,’
but a parent or adult can help a student think about how to
elaborate on a certain topic or let them know that they tend to say
‘um’ a lot,” says Anna Follensbee, senior associate director of
Undergraduate Admissions at Loyola University Maryland. Some sample
questions she recommends adults ask students are: Why is this
school a good match for you? What's your favorite class in high
school? What activity has been most meaningful to you and why? And
when it’s the student's turn to ask questions, be sure that
your son or daughter has done ample research about the school.
Follensbee says that she’s always impressed with queries that begin
with, “I was reading about your…”
7. Don’t bank on getting off the waitlist.
If your child’s top school puts him on the waitlist, unfortunately
there isn’t much you or he can do to get off of it. According to
Murray, most schools don’t rank their waitlists, which means that
there isn’t a numbered queue of students waiting for a spot to free
up. Instead, “schools will typically go to the waitlist to fill a
specific need, like if they need more biology majors, for example.
As a student or parent, you can’t ever be ahead of the curve
because you don’t know what they’re looking for.” He explains that
whenever families call asking what their chances of getting off the
waitlist are, he tells them that it’s in their best interest to
apply elsewhere. “Don’t wait for us; make sure you’re covered.”
Because it's very rare to get off the waitlist, Murray
recommends moving on. Worst-case scenario? You get accepted and
lose your deposit at another school.

Learn how to say "no" in any
situation.
8. Don’t hesitate when it comes to asking for financial
aid.
Worried that checking the financial aid box will make admissions
officers think twice about considering your child? “When making a
decision, we focus on a student’s qualifications and ability to be
successful at the school—not on their financial need,” says Murray.
By checking the financial aid box on the application, you’ll open the
door to “many options to help pay for college through institutional
merit scholarships, need-based financial aid and outside
scholarships,” says Follensbee. But keep in mind that scholarships
and financial aid will first go to students who have strong grades
and test scores relative to the applicant pool, so consider
applying to schools where your child will rise above the other
applicants and therefore get the best aid packages.
9. Lose the silly email address!
“Very often we come across students with fantastic grades, test
scores and extracurricular activities, and then notice that they
have an email address that’s completely inappropriate,” says
Winter. “That tends to communicate a bit about who they are.” He
advises that students avoid this by registering for a very standard
email address—first name, last name, etc.—and using that for all
college-related correspondences. In the same vein, encourage your
teen to clean up her Facebook and Twitter accounts—colleges often
check them out to get a better sense of what each applicant is
like.

Mind your email manners for more professional
correspondences.
10. Show interest in a school early and
often.
Take advantage of college fairs and other opportunities to collect
information about different schools—many institutions will keep
track of the students who seek out information, updating their
files every time prospective students make a campus visit or take a
tour. According to Murray, “it definitely helps to know how
interested a student is in your school.” But keep in mind that your
son's or daughter’s demonstrated ability to be successful at
the university (their grades, test scores, extracurricular
activities, etc.) is paramount. “Aside from showing a genuine
interest in being a student at the school, the best thing a teen
can do is complete the admissions requirements within the stated
deadlines.”
Photo: © Joy Brown/Shutterstock

Article originally appeared on 
WomansDay.com.
You Might Also Like:


10 Marriage Rules You Should Break


10 Things Your Teenager Won't Tell You


How to Complain Effectively in Any Situation


8 Ways to be a Happier Mom


How to Talk to Your Husband About Sex

Related: parenting tips





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 101 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by kishor Kunwar  Sat Sep 10, 2011 4:29am PDT

Golden rules 2 outshine others n scale d heights! Great follow-ups!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by The Great Rage 17 hours ago

There is always the University of South-Northern Mexico City State Junior Community College of the Arts if all else fails.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Playing The Blues 16 hours ago

Here's a tip: BE BLACK.Blacks have a much easier time getting into colleges than whites and especially Asians. Colleges have to meet a quota for a given race, and since blacks traditionally do poorer on their SATs, the average black has less competition in getting into a good school.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by christopher 16 hours ago

How about bringing back vocational schoolsTo send my kid to school to get a nursing degree, she must take Art History and 10 other classes that have nothing to do with nursing?.............Sounds like the fix is In ! !

Report Abuse

 


Posted by jess 16 hours ago

Get into a Great School and spend the rest of your life paying off the loans!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Peter 15 hours ago

How about bringing back vocational schools    To send my kid to school to get a nursing degree, she must take Art History and 10 other classes that have nothing to do with nursing?.............Sounds like the fix is In ! !WHAT!  G-d forbid your child gets a well rounded university education. A little culture goes a long way. Your child does not want to be a Nurse robot.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Cameron 15 hours ago

How long ago did colleges decide to ditch the students who just want to further a field. Now its all about getting a good job and getting a better salary. Ive gotta prick my arm every time i think about admitting im just here to learn, not make a million a month or save the world.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Someone else's opinion 15 hours ago

Get into to a collage spend your life paying for loans to end up in the same job as people who didn't go to college and are 4-5 years ahead in their life. hmmm. . . .

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Paulee 15 hours ago

One way, it appears, is that Elmhurst College in Illinois is asking applicants if they are a homesexual.  This is sickening.  I have nothing against gay people and I don't hate them but this type of stuff is ludricous.  Evidently, if you are homosexual you will be given preferential treatment.  I know...........maybe if you take up with your dog and enough people do it, they will ask if you are still screwin the dog.  Maybe that might be a good way to get in a good college also.  Who knows.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Dio 15 hours ago

Honestly, nobody aside from people I have allowed can see my Facebook account, and even then not everyone sees everything. It's all in knowing how to play with the security settings.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 101 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post














back to school pick of the day


Planning and packing tips for back-to-school lunches



Any parent will agree that the world's toughest food critics are children. To ensure that junior's lunch doesn't go straight into the trash (and your time and money with it) or get traded for something a lot less nutritious, parents need to approach this nagging problem with a strategy.
 Posted by Epicurious




Find out how »



Back to School FYI

School Takes A Lot. Target Has It All.


Shop Now »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »











Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


‘Anderson’ Premiere: Winehouse Family Claims Drugs Did Not Cause Death

Remembering 9/11: Shine readers share their stories10 NYC Bloggers Remember 9/11: "Tomorrow May Not Come, So I Live for Today"


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 2

The 9 Hottest Hair Colors for Fall 2011F.D.A. Says Brazilian Blowout is Dangerous


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


Kathy Griffin's D-list stay-fit and fabulous tips(video)

5 Health Slip-Ups—Remedied25 simple ways to get more steps in your day


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Kate Winslet's Son Already Wondering if He's Gay At Age 7

The Second Day: Teenage filmmaker gives voice to children of 9/11As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory.


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Woman calls guy she likes 65,000 times. That's a touch much.

A 9/11 Widow Shares Her Tale Of Love From BeyondThe Love Stories Behind Elizabeth Taylor's Jewels


More in Love + Sex »



Food


4 secrets to a perfect casserole

Deep-Fried Pimiento Cheese10 Quick and Easy School-Night Dinners


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


4 healthy, delicious ways to spice up oatmeal for kids

Strap on your baby and boogie!Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














 

