For China's richest, after the money and fancy homes it is time for a foreign passport - Yahoo! Canada Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Canada Finance              Search   Search Web       








What are streaming quotes?




 
			{ "market" : {"NAME" : "", "ID" : "ca", "TZ" : "", "TZOFFSET" : "-14400", "open" : "", "close" : "", "flags" : ""} ,"STREAMER_SERVER" : "http://streamerapi.finance.yahoo.com" ,"arrowAsChangeSign" : false ,"throttleInterval": "1000","localize":"0" ,"region": "CA","lang" : "en-CA","mu":"1" ,"up_arrow_icon" :"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/up_g.gif" , "down_arrow_icon":"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/down_r.gif" ,"up_color" :"green" , "down_color":"red","pass_market_id" : "0","market_status_yrb" :"YFT_MARKET_CLOSED"}
		



Home
Investing
Market Stats
Canada Indices
Currencies
US Indices
World Indices
Price Gainers
Price Losers
Advances & Declines


News

Top Stories
Stock Market
International
Earnings
Commodities
Currencies
Video
Economy
All News
Technology
Bonds



My PortfoliosSign in to access My Portfolios


Perfect Cents
Saving and Budgeting
Investing
Spending
Borrowing







Search for share prices
Search for share prices

Sun Sep 11, 2011 7:52AM EDT - Canadian Markets closed









For China's richest, after the money and fancy homes it is time for a foreign passport







Topics:

CommoditiesMortgagesRetirement 








In this photo taken on Aug. 1, 2011, a worker walks near advertisement boards outside an office of Beijing Goldlink Go-Abroad Consulting Co., an immigration consulting firm assisting Chinese to immigrate to Canada and the United States, in Beijing. Among the 20,000 Chinese with at least 100 million yuan ($15 million) in individual investment assets, 27 percent have already emigrated and 47 percent are considering it, according to a report by China Merchants Bank and U.S. consultants Bain & Co. published in April. (AP Photo/Alexander F. Yuan)






Louise Watt, The Associated Press, 	On Wednesday September 7, 2011, 3:57 am EDT


                    By Louise Watt, The Associated Press
              BEIJING, China - Chinese millionaire Su builds skyscrapers in
                    Beijing
                    and is one of the people powering China's economy on its path to becoming the world's biggest.
He sits at the top of a country — economy booming, influence spreading, military swelling — widely expected to dominate the 21st century.
Yet the property developer shares something surprising with many newly rich in China: he's looking forward to the day he can leave.
Su's reasons: He wants to protect his assets, he has to watch what he says in China and wants a second child, something against the law for many Chinese.
The millionaire spoke to The Associated Press on condition that only his surname was used because of fears of government reprisals that could damage his business.
China's richest are increasingly investing abroad to get a foreign passport, to make international business and travel easier but also to give them a way out of China.
The United States is the most popular destination for Chinese emigrants, with rich Chinese praising its education and healthcare systems. Last year, nearly 68,000 Chinese-born people became legal permanent residents of the U.S., seven per cent of the total and second only to those born in
                    Mexico
                    . Canada and Australia are also popular.
It is a bothersome trend for China's communist leaders who've pinned the legitimacy of one-party rule on delivering rapid economic growth and a rising standard of living. They've succeeded in lifting tens of millions of ordinary Chinese out of poverty while also creating a new class of super rich. Yet affluence alone seems a poor bargain to those with the means to live elsewhere.
Despite more economic freedom, the communist government has kept its tight grip on many other aspects of daily life. China's leaders punish, sometimes harshly, public dissent and any perceived challenges to their power, and censor what can be read online and in print. Authoritarian rule, meanwhile, has proved ineffective in addressing long standing problems of pollution, contaminated food and a creaking health care system.
"In China, nothing belongs to you. Like buying a house. You buy it but it will belong to the country 70 years later," said Su, lamenting the government's land leasing system.
"But abroad, if you buy a house, it belongs to you forever," he said. "Both businessmen and government officials are like this. They worry about the security of their assets."
Leo Liu, marketing manager at
                    Beijing
                    emigration consultants Goldlink, said the company has noticed an increasing trend of rich Chinese wanting to emigrate, particularly to Canada, in the 15 years since it was founded.
The main reasons people want to move abroad, he said, are their children's education and for better healthcare. Some want to leave because they got their money illegally, such as corrupt government officials and businesspeople, while others are inspired by friends who have already emigrated to the U.S.
"They want to get a green card even though they may still do business here in China," Liu said. "They might have sent their wife and children abroad.
"And some of them just love life in a foreign country, the Western style," he said.
There is also a yawning gap between rich and poor in China, which feeds a resentment that makes some of the wealthy uncomfortable. The country's uneven jump to capitalism over the last three decades has created dozens of billionaires, but China barely ranks in the top 100 on a World Bank list of countries by income per person.
Getting a foreign passport is like "taking out an insurance policy," said Rupert Hoogewerf, who compiles the Hurun Rich List, China's version of the Forbes list.
"If there is political unrest or suddenly things change in China — because it's a big country, something could go wrong — they already have a passport to go overseas. It's an additional safety net."
Among the 20,000 Chinese with at least 100 million yuan ($15 million) in individual investment assets, 27 per cent have already emigrated and 47 per cent are considering it, according to a report by China Merchants Bank and U.S. consultants Bain & Co. published in April.
Nearly 60 per cent of the people surveyed said worries over their children's education are a reason for wanting to leave.
A millionaire who works in the coal industry, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said the main push behind his plans to emigrate is China's test-centric school system, often criticized for producing students who can pass exams but who lack skills for the world of work.
He will take his 7-year-old to the U.S. as soon as the child graduates from junior high at an international school in
                    Beijing
                    where pupils are instructed in English.
"The U.S. has a good educational system and excellent health care," said the 39-year-old, who has three homes in China and assets worth $5 million. "That's why we look forward to going there."
Other top motivations cited in the Merchants Bank study are to protect assets and to prepare for retirement. Also cited as reasons for leaving: having more children and making it easier to develop an overseas business.
Alongside increased emigration there has also been a massive outflow of private money from China despite its strict currency controls. The report estimates that rich Chinese — those with assets of more than 10 million yuan — have about 3.6 trillion yuan ($564 billion) invested overseas.
"The Chinese economy now looks like a massive funnel," said Zhong Dajun, director of the non-governmental Dajun Center for Economic Observation & Studies in
                    Beijing
                    .
Zhong said it is mostly corrupt government officials who transfer entire fortunes overseas because they have been illegally acquired and "they have fears and feel guilty."
Wealthy Russians have also been establishing footholds abroad for the past decade, seeking a safe haven both for their money and their children. In recent years, the trend has extended to
                    Russia
                    's emerging middle class. They cannot afford to invest in London, a favourite destination for
                    Russia
                    's billionaires and millionaires, so have been setting up second homes in less expensive European countries, including those like the Czech Republic that were once part of the
                    Soviet
                    bloc.
Su, the property developer, intends to stay in China and continue building residential high-rises and office buildings for another 10 years because he fears it would be too difficult for him to replicate his mainland business success abroad.
His wife is already in the U.S., expecting their second child. Under China's one-child policy in place for the last three decades to control population growth, couples can be penalized for having more than one child. In
                    Beijing
                    , the penalty is a one-off fee 3-10 times the city's average income, a maximum of 250,000 yuan ($40,000).
"The living conditions abroad are better, like residential conditions, food safety and education," said the millionaire as he dined in the VIP room of a
                    Beijing
                    restaurant. Lowering his voice, he said for many rich there are worries about the authoritarian government. "This is a very sensitive topic. Everyone knows this. It's freer and more just abroad," he said.








 

203 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 203First PrevNextLast
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment t360degrees 3 hours ago Report Abuse There seems to be a misconception of the Chinese.   Firstly they are good people (not the govt which is perverse).   They are good workers, that's debatable. I have worked with many and you will find the good and bad. Fast - possibly. Is the work good? Not necessarily. I worked with some of the laziest ones that always conversed in Chinese which is really irritating to those actually working (and I am only taking my department) which were of white (depending on whom, some lots of sick days, they believe you are entitled to taking all sick days, and either good or just ok, and complain about everything without actually coming up with a resolution), Indian (East; good, hardly every sick), Philippino (constantly on sick days, but a good worker), women and men.   The Chinese men were lazy (hardly any sick days but always late) and the other nationalities were better workers.   Fast doesn't necessarily mean   you get the job done properly but then if its boring and unionized that's what you get.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
3 users disliked this comment George 5 hours ago Report Abuse What the U.S does not need are Asian drivers.
 




5 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this commentA Yahoo! User 5 hours ago Report Abuse There are so many haters out there, most of you guys just hate out of jealousy. As so called white built nation or true white north crap, the Chinese forefathers contributed and sacrificed so much to this land even before this nation was founded. If weren't because of the early Chinese rail road workers, this country will now be splited in two. Now the new Chinese immigrants bring billions to invest this land during economy down time and some of you people curse and post racist comments?? Get you self some history and business lessions, it's a terrible thing see some our fellow Canadian post ignorant comments as such. Tell you something thatt I've learnt in business school, Chinese Canadian have the highest average income among all ethnics in Canada and China is world's #2 economy and Canada second largest trading partner. I have a Chinese newcomer neighbor came to this country with almost 4 million dollars, they bought 2 sports cars and 700 thousand dollar home and invested in 2 businesses. I clap my hands everytime when I see people like these come to Canada, if they just want to get out of China and move to a first world country, they just can, because they are rich, it's like what they say in a lottery commercial, because they can and they are rich. I'm glad they choose to move to Canada. On another hand, I'm not so sure about our country's refugee policy. Look at the paper for illigal immigrants bust, cons and war criminals who let into this country, rich Chinese immigrants are the least thing we sould concern.
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Michael 6 hours ago Report Abuse i would better a sell my passport to Chinese millionare.
 



5 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Eileen 6 hours ago Report Abuse I've always been able to find a job because I'm a good worker....people who are afraid of foreigners taking jobs are usually unskilled and slow workers.   I've worked along side of chinese and they are fast and dependable workers and don't complain like many white people I know.....if someone cannot get a job maybe they should change their   view of entitlement and be competative in the workplace, if I was an employer I wouldn't want many of the applicants, they are not very dependable and are quite often slacking off and their co-workers have to pull up the slack and work harder.....
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
3 users disliked this comment CHICKEN HEAD 7 hours ago Report Abuse chicken head says : its time for a chicken soup
 



3 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
7 users disliked this comment Bates 7 hours ago Report Abuse Meat head who told you Canada's a country of adiversity. This country Canada was founded on Christain Values no other. Multiculturism and odd ball religeons lie Islam doesn not work and never will.   To many Imigrants that have come to Canada and have done nothing more but to deteriorate its infrastructure and consume with out paying into it at an alarming rate.   Shut down imigration for five years and restructure would be the best route to go at this time.
 



11 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment longman 8 hours ago Report Abuse I'm amazed at the height of ignorance and the rampant racism of some of the people on here. Canada is about diversity... this is why we are so respected in the world. Currently I am living in Asia and have met many Asians who think that Canadians are among some of the nicest people in the world and because of that have expressed a desire to visit or emigrate here. Perhaps if those same hate-filled voices ranting here would stop and use their brains to think intelligently for one minute instead of using their dubious intellects as generators for hate and intolerance, then they would realize that we need people of all races to join us and make this country into a wonderful home for us all and help forge Canada into the powerful voice and leader it can be in world politics and this global village. Consider for one minute all the wonderful contributions those Chinese who have already settled here made. Here is a link to some of our fellow Canadians I would be proud to know.    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Chinese_Canadians
 



6 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
6 users disliked this comment Jimmy Crack Corn 8 hours ago Report Abuse This is why rural small town white folks shouldn't be allowed Internet access.
 



6 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
3 users disliked this comment Jim 9 hours ago Report Abuse I have a suggestion. Since the wealthy want to move here and like the system that was built by tax money, there should be a tax on all past earnings payable to the Canadian government to make up for what was not paid for in the country of origin. I find it unfair that people with a very low tax rate can make and save money at 10 times my rate because they paid very little tax and then become Canadians and take advantage of all that my   65% tax rate has helped procure. And on top of that drive the cost of housing etc. to unreachable levels with untaxed monies. If you come here poor then you don't pay because you did not disadvantage other Canadians with a low tax rate. Seems only fair!

Comments 1 - 10 of 203First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                







Top Stories




Job, debt woes at home and abroad to weigh on investor sentiment - The Canadian Press


Pyjamas, pantyhose and pillows all cost more in Canada than in the U.S. - The Canadian Press


Long road ahead before truckers make the switch from diesel to natural gas - The Canadian Press


Egypt stocks down moderately after angry mob's storming of Israeli embassy in Cairo - The Canadian Press






Brands

 
 

Before Wal-Mart, there was A&P

- New York Times




 The story of a retailer that because of its sheer size could command volume discounts from its suppliers — and pass along the savings to customers. 

 
 

EA positioned to rule cloud gaming

- The Canadian Press




 With its purchase of PopCap Games, EA has pushed itself ahead of its gaming competitors in the race to dominate the next frontier. 

 
 

Fiat to sell Doblo van in US, Canada under Ram brand

- The Canadian Press




 Fiat is continuing its North American return with plans to sell its Doblo van in the U.S. and Canada starting in 2013. 

 
  
                            Looking beyond Abercrombie & Fitch's 'Situation'
                         - Motley Fool   
                            Twitter in no hurry to file IPO
                         - The Canadian Press   
                            Price hikes minimal for Lululemon customers
                         - AllThingsD  







Perfect Cents

 
 

Bailing on your budget

- Investopedia




 There are times when you need to question your budget as it stands - or whether you need one at all. 

 
  
                            What it really costs to borrow money
                         - IEF   
                            Are you investing or gambling?
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Be cautious when investing in gold
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Hidden vacation fees to watch for
                         - Investopedia  

Visit Perfect Cents »


Careers

 
 

Celebrate 'Update Your Resume Month'

- US News & World Report




 When was the last time you updated your resume? What changes can you make to your existing resume to make it stronger? 

 
  
                            Government won't spend to stop job losses
                         - The Canadian Press   
                            Surefire ways to not get the job
                         - US News & World Report   
                            How to dress like an entrepreneur
                         - Entrepreneur   
                            10 signs you have a bad boss
                         - US News & World Report  




Real Estate

 
 

Five steps before you start house shopping

- Investor Education Fund




 If you do your homework, you'll be less likely to end up with something you can't afford, or that isn't worth what you pay for it.  

 
  
                            Remodel your bathroom on the cheap
                           
                            Board deflecting anti-competitive concerns: Watchdog
                           
                            Renovations that add real value to your home
                          




CEO Clips

 
 

 More from CEO Clips





 Executive interviews from leaders of Canadian industry. 

 





Subscribe to Topics



Top Stories 
					


 



 



Commodities



 



 



Mortgages



 



 



Retirement



 



 

















Yahoo! Canada Finance

Investing
Stocks News
Commodities News
Market Stats
Currency Converter
Quotes Lookup


Y! Canada Finance for mobile
Top Stories
Finance Videos
Finance News
Currency
See Your Portfolio



Also on Yahoo! Canada

Answers
Autos
Entertainment
Flickr
Games
Groups
Horoscopes


Shine
Maps
Messenger
Mail
Music
News
Personals


Sports
Travel
Weather
Yahoo! Canada Mobile
Y! Canada Home Page
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Order Annual Reports
Mortgage News
Finance on Your Phone
News - Most Popular
News
Site Map




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data, daily updates, fundAnalyst estimates data provided by Thomson Financial Network. All data povided by Thomson Financial Network is based solely upon research information provided by third party analysts. Yahoo! has not reviewed, and in no way endorses the validity of such data. Yahoo! and ThomsonFN shall not be liable for any actions taken in reliance thereon.



1184550396










