Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal?                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero!        False Steve Jobs’ Report: Beginning of the End For...        Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To...        US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US...        Taliban Attacks U.S. Afghan Base on Eve of Tenth...        U.S. and European Union Agree to Fight Illegal Fishing...          Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Is international community ready to help Syrians in...        Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...        PHOTOS: Chinese Ethnic Games opening ceremony           (Pics) Rugby World Cup 2011: Opening ceremony in...        Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans        Miss Universe Prediction: Miss Thailand and Miss...        Diplomatic Failure: Can US help Israel to overcome the...        Class in Egyptian hieroglyphics translates ancient...        Cyndi Lauper Messes Up National Anthem 9/11 Tribute at...              Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal?    Perugia :  Italy
|
Sep 10, 2011
 
By AmberCornelio            9 0      
Views: 220
        As Amanda Knox’s murder trial nears its verdict, the question that begs to be answered is whether her recent confidence in being acquitted and the interview with a local paper maintaining her innocence, is a ploy to effect a “not guilty” verdict? It was a very hopeful yet confident Amanda Knox, or Foxy Knoxy as they like to call her, who said that she would be home for this Thanksgiving because she was sure that the jury “finally believe!” Referring to her appeal of murder charges for the killing of the British student Meredith Kercher, which she shares with former Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, is solely dependent on the alleged “shoddy handling” of forensic evidence at the scene of the crime. Knox says that Meredith was her friend and she could’ve never hurt her, yet the body of the then 21-year-old British student was found with her throat slashed, partially naked, in her bedroom of the house that they shared with two other women. Two court appointed independent experts had earlier produced a report which presented the Perugia Police’s original forensic investigation as being in breach of international guidelines for handling forensic evidence that they allege resulted in contaminated and unreliable forensic material on which to base any conclusions! Amanda Knox has finally given an interview with the local newspaper il Messaggero through her lawyer Luciano Ghirga, saying hopefully, “Finally they believe me. I always knew that I would make it.” While she feels that many still suspect her of the crime, she thinks it's great to know that at last they don't hate her any more, and that they may finally not be looking at her as though she was guilty. Knox maintains that Meredith was her friend and she liked her and could never hurt her yet if one recalls, it was believed that there had been quite a bit of tension between the two young women based on personal values and lifestyle choices. There also don’t seem to be any witnesses – or that we have been privy to – that have come forth to discuss the relationship between the two girls. All we know is that Meredith’s DNA was on the knife’s blade and Amanda’s DNA was on the knife handle and there was also blood found of Amanda’s bra clasp.  Amanda Knox’s boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, also apparently collected big knives since the tender age of 14. While the prosecutors had a requested a second review of the meager and badly botched up evidence, which was earlier denied by judge Claudio Pratillo Hellman, the final hearing will resume with closing arguments and final speeches on 23 September 2011 and a final verdict will be handed in one week later. Whether the legal process is indeed all that meticulous remains to be seen but the final arguments and verdict will determine which aspects of the case were deemed most important by the people of Perugia.        1 of 40        
Amanda Knox arrives at her appeal hearing in Perugia's Court of Appeal on September 6, 2011 in Perugia, Italy.
     
AmberCornelio is based in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (74.3%) Portugal (5.3%) France (5.3%) Germany (3.3%) 9 other countries (9.2%)           READ MORE: Meredith Kercher, Amanda Knox, Rudy Guede, Raffaele Sollecito, Perugia police, Knox trial forensic investigation, investigation, Amanda Knox&rsquo, trial, DNA, sentence, Meredith&, Amanda   More News From: Perugia :  Italy      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 6            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news story. Maybe Amanda will go free soon.
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
Well written this report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Very nicely compiled report. Thanks for sharing. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     TajdarHaider
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well committed work done.. keep it up...rated up...
            Reply  Posted By     Ruby1204
|
21 minutes
ago
  
It was an interesting report. Thanks for sharing. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
12 minutes
ago
  
Excellent report,keep it next dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Amanda Knox could be released in Italian murder case  By: kensai      
 
Nearly two years after Amanda Knox was convicted of the brutal murder of her roommate in Italy, the judge looks set to be a free woman because of problems of the American DNA testing.
 
An independent report of forensic experts questioned the validity of tests of blood samples in a 12-inch knife used to kill Meredith Kercher, 21, ...  3 days ago     Italian court rejects new DNA test request in Amanda Knox trial By: Samantha86      
An Italian court has rejected new DNA test request in the Amanda Knox trial. This rejection has come as a blow to the prosecution who had been relying on the DNA evidence to support their case.
This is being considered as a positive development for the American student, who is seeking to overturn her murder conviction.
It should be noted ...  3 days ago     Will The Amanda Knox Verdict Be Overturned? Positive New Development ... By: susievee      9.7.11, Perugia, Italy]------In a positive new development for the Amanda Knox defense, prosecution's DNA evidence was rejected by the Italian court on Wednesday.
Knox's defense team, which has worked hard to overturn her murder conviction, won strong points on this latest court manuever. The prosecution, however was hard hit by this denial.
This ...  3 days ago     Amanda Knox Hopes To Be 'Freed' By: khattar      There is a new hope of lease of life for Amanda Knox and her family that she will be a free person in a months time. The hopes are so high that her father has reached Perugia, Italy from US. The optimism is based on the opinion of the ndependent experts who have shed doubt on the original police forensic investigation because of a series ...  5 days ago     Amanda Knox’s trial resumes after revelations of faulty DNA tests By: wendyzachary      Since Meredith Kercher’s murder in November 2007, we have seen many twist and turns to the trial. Today, the trial of Amanda Knox, the girl accused of being involved in the murder case, resumes after findings that the investigation carried out after the murder was flawed and the DNA tests were faulty.
Victim, Meredith Kercher’s family ...  5 days ago     Prosecutor challenges new DNA report in Amanda Knox plea trial By: JenniferRees      
A prosecutor in plea trial of Amanda Knox and her boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, has challenged the forensic experts who reported that no DNA had been found on the knife that is supposed to be the murder weapon.
Amanda Knox, the 23-year-old American student, and Raffaele Sollecito were convicted of murdering a British student who shared an ...  28 days ago     Amanda Knox: One Step Back, Two Steps Forward to Freedom  By: BruceFisher      The ongoing nightmare
for Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito, in Perugia Italy, will continue
to linger on as the prosecution has successfully extended the appeal
trial with what seems to be for no other reason than to muddy the water.
Knox and Sollecito
currently stand convicted of murdering Meredith Kercher in late 2007.
Both have ...  about 1 month ago     Amanda Knox DNA profile in evidence unreliable? By: AmberCornelio       
Amanda Knox, the girl they love to call “Foxy Noxy” entered the courtroom today, she looked at Raffaele Sollecito, her ex boyfriend who she was involved with at the time that British citizen Meredith Kercher was found with her throat slit under the same roof…
American Amanda Knox’s defense team claimed today that ...  about 1 month ago     Amanda Knox DNA appeal sparks legal battle by forensic experts By: planetx      An acquittal will create a vacuum for those who have benefited from the cottage industry spawned by the case. But almost certainly, a new one will develop in Seattle, with Knox sure to be a darling of the talk-show circuit, and possibly even an advocate for other prisoners. There is already a nasty media war for her first post-prison interview or ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       Images    >         Amanda Knox arrives for appeal    Amanda Knox arrives for appeal Image Source: allvoices Amanda Knox arrives at her appeal hearing in Perugia's Court of Appeal on ...        US student Amanda Knox    US student Amanda Knox Image Source: www.afp.com US student Amanda Knox        US student Amanda Knox    US student Amanda Knox Image Source: www.afp.com US student Amanda Knox        US student Amanda Knox    US student Amanda Knox Image Source: www.afp.com US student Amanda Knox        Knox was sentenced to 26 years ...    Knox was sentenced to 26 years ... Image Source: www.afp.com Knox was sentenced to 26 years in prison for the 2007 murder        Italian student Raffaele ...    Italian student Raffaele ... Image Source: www.afp.com Italian student Raffaele Sollecito      More Related Images    More From Perugia          Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal?       University want Knox free? What is their intention?        How trustworthy is present Knox trial? What hidden undercurrents are there?         Amanda Knox could be released in Italian murder case           Italian court rejects new DNA test request in Amanda Knox trial        Will The Amanda Knox Verdict Be Overturned? Positive New Development For The Defense        Amanda Knox Hopes To Be 'Freed'        Prosecutor challenges new DNA report in Amanda Knox plea trial          Amanda Knox DNA profile in evidence unreliable?       Amanda Knox: Will the wolf take the lamb out?        Amanda knox, tries to block violent Meredith murder film.       Knox's murder DNA evidence is thrown out.               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10302213          Cartoons of The Day             Ten years after          Tears            10 Years          Towers    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 21 hours ago
      EX INDIA CRICKET CAPTAIN AZHARUDDIN'S SON DIES IN ROAD ACCIDENT By: Leosdesk
| about 6 hours ago
      Tiger Death Caused by Jealousy By: Orakul
| about 19 hours ago
      Sensational Charice will be Perfoming at an NFL 9/11 tribute game ... By: manilatop10
| about 7 hours ago
      Live Football Sweet Deal: ESPN Pays $15.2 Billion To Keep NFL For 8 ... By: susievee
| about 19 hours ago
      Cliff Robertson dies At 88 with a new crop of fans By: StephEaly
| about 10 hours ago
      World's largest free-flying flag at 9/11 Ground Zero! By: AmberCornelio
| about 12 hours ago
      CBS reports that Steve Jobs has died! By: AmberCornelio
| about 11 hours ago
      (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem
| about 10 hours ago
      US Eagles Kick Off 9/11 In Church-No God In US Ceremony By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Two NASA satellites travel to the Moon By: Vicky247
| about 21 hours ago
      Rugby World Cup 2011: England 13-9 Argentina By: khattar
| about 23 hours ago
      Ex-President Musharraf says Pakistan would have faced combined ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Bayern Munich humbled 7-0 at Freiburg By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 15 hours ago
      10 years after the event of 9/11, America is not sure it would win war ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 8 hours ago
      The Five Suspects Are Still Awaiting Trial from September 11, 2001 By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Torrential rains, floods cause widespread devastation in interior ... By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
      Egypt says it is in deep crisis By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 18 hours ago
      China accuses Western Countries of “double standards” in their ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 22 hours ago
      Breaking: Tornado hits Auckland suburb, NZ By: solarp
| about 8 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 0       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 31       Comments: 6    6       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10302213), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10302213 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10302213 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Is Amanda Knox’s confidence a ploy for acquittal?” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10302213-is-amanda-knoxs-confidence-a-ploy-for-acquittal.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         