Firefighters gain ground on Texas wildfire | TBO.com
















                    
                    Welcome Guest
                    |

|
Register



Subscribe to Tribune/Manage acct.
|
Advertise With Us
|
Contact Us









You forgot to enter your search term.

























HOMENEWSBusiness »Money 911 Politics »Voters Guide Opinion AP »Breaking News en Espanol Top Headlines National Florida Offbeat Videos Obituaries & Memoriams Links Special Reports »Multimedia Reports Slideshows Traffic Fact Finder Photo galleries Social Media Gas Prices » NEWSWEATHER7 Day Forecast »Hourly Forecast Current Conditions »Severe Advisories Weather Spot Blog Radar »Doppler Animated Statewide Brandon Central Tampa South Tampa New Tampa NW Hillsborough South Shore North Pinellas South Pinellas Pasco Polk Manatee Sarasota Heartland Hernando Citrus Atlantic Satellite VIPIR Interactive Pollen Forecast Hurricane Tracker Hurricane Guide Smartphone App Your Weather Photos Personal Forecast Text Alerts Tides Marine Buoy Web Cams TBO Traffic » WEATHERCOMMUNITYBrandon Carrollwood Central Tampa Northeast Northwest Pasco Tribune Plant City South Shore South Tampa Suncoast Pasco Suncoast Pinellas The Sun Hernando Today Highlands Today » COMMUNITYENTERTAINMENTVideo Movies Music Television Dining Arts Nightlife Extra Etc. Celebrities Comics Submit Events Gasparilla Strawberry Festival ADV. Busch Gardens » ENTERTAINMENTSPORTSBucs Rays Lightning USF Bulls Other Colleges Prep Sports Storm Auto Racing Golf Other Sports »8Prime Sports/Our Team Outdoors »ADV: Go Fishing Network » SPORTSLIVINGHealth 4You Snap Moms Education Food Horoscopes Home & Garden Beaches Pets Travel & Local Attractions Lottery Going Green Florida Bride Free & Cheap » LIVINGTOOLSSearch Site Search Events Search Video Research & Archives »Search Archives Page / Photo Reprints Order Back Issues Public Research Archives Article Copyright Policy Upload Photos Upload Videos TBO Business Directory Check Traffic Explore Fact Finder Get Email Alerts Get Text Alerts Get RSS Feeds » TOOLSDealsFree & Cheap Find N Save Daily Deal Grocery Coupons Kooponz Garage Sales iPhone App TBO Deals iPhone Apps Weekly Sales Circulars More Deals Subscribe to Deals Email ADV. Back To School JobsSearch Jobs »Tampa Bay Jobs Hernando Jobs Highlands Jobs Post Jobs »For Tampa Bay For Hernando For Highlands Top Jobs AutosBad Credit? No Credit? Top Autos Auto Loan Calculator Post an Auto Ad HomesFor Sale »Homes-Apartments For Sale by Owner Agents & Realtors For Rent Foreclosures Commercial Real Estate Open House Finder Recently Sold Top Properties Top Open Houses Top Rentals Orchards, Farms & Acreage Shop/ClassifiedsSearch Classifieds »Search All Classifieds Search Jobs Classifieds Search Homes Classifieds Search Auto Classifieds Top Stuff Browse Newspaper Ads »Tampa Bay Market Place Hernando Market Place Highlands Market Place TBO Business Directory Place an Ad Top Stuff Statewide Public Notices Buy Photos & Page Reprints Buy Sports Gear Prep Football Patrons ServicesContact Us Advertise With Us Manage Subscription Partners »Tribrewards Daytime Starwatch Our Team PCS Kindness Tampa Bay FCG Press Releases 











Hot Topics >> 
Bucs-Lions
 • 9/11
 • Rays sweep
 • Lee Roy Selmon




WeatherWeather









RSS

 Text Size
			
Print
 Share This






Firefighters gain ground on Texas wildfire















 THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A house burns off of Texas State Highway 21.  One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.








A house burns off of Texas State Highway 21.  One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.
 THE ASSOCIATED PRESS




1









                
                    By 
                    
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                The Associated Press
                            
                        
                        
Published: September 07, 2011
Updated: September 07, 2011 - 8:34 PM


BASTROP, Texas --
Firefighters gained ground Wednesday against one of the most destructive  wildfires in Texas history even as the state said the number of homes lost  reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the  smoking ruins.
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential campaign  after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to  California to meet his Republican rivals in his first nationally televised  debate.
The blaze has left at least two people dead, blackened about 45  square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the west,  where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar.
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 percent  contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of  the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to explode over the  weekend. Nevertheless, the number of homes that the Texas Forest Service  reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before.
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes  that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, which is  perilously dry because of one of the state's most severe droughts on record. In  addition to the two victims in the Bastrop area fire whose bodies were found  Tuesday, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere.
One of the two people killed in the Bastrop area fire was  identified Wednesday as Michael Troy Farr, 49, who died at his home in  Smithville. Bastrop County officials did not immediately release details about  the second victim, who they said was found at a different location.
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York  following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area using dogs trained to sniff out  bodies.
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency's  incident commander, said he didn't know if there were any more dead, but “if  there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them.”
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only  around 2,500 registered with the county.
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes,  including crews from as far away as California and Oregon.
The outbreak has made this the state's costliest wildfire season  on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010.
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that  cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted  that being $35 million lighter hasn't left Texas less equipped to fight the  latest fires.
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no  firefighters in the Forest Service were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will  be felt by volunteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks,  said Robbie Dewitt, the agency's finance officer.
Moreover, the forest service said it will spend whatever is  necessary from state coffers to deal with the disaster and have the expenses  accounted for later by state leaders.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said Wednesday he would sign a request  for the federal government to declare Texas a major disaster area. The White  House later said President Barack Obama had telephoned Perry to make it clear  the federal government will continue to provide assistance to state and local  officials fighting the fire.
Obama also assured Perry that requests for additional assistance  would be quickly assessed.
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check  maps taped to the pillars that showed the destruction.
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that  her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn't among the addresses listed  as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the  place.
“It's just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is  so far we only have two confirmed deaths. … So I'll take that,” she said.
Perry returned to the campaign after cutting short a visit to  South Carolina on Sunday.
“I'm a little disappointed after what he said the other day about  pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority,” said Guylaine  Williett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. “Now he's out on the  campaign trail when us Texans are here in need.”
Veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos said three days on the  ground coordinating state efforts was long enough.
“The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman,”  said Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush's re-election campaign  and more recently worked for Perry opponent Mitt Romney. “Americans know he can  meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate.”
Before Wednesday night's debate, Perry discussed the fires while  chatting backstage with some of his fellow candidates. Herman Cain and then Mitt  Romney asked the governor how Texas was faring.
“Have they been brought under control?” Romney asked, talking  across the room to Perry.
“It's still too early to tell,” Perry responded. “They're  serious, they're mean.”








Share This:
 Email

 Facebook
 Google
 Twitter
 Favorites
 More




Advertisement



Advertisement











Deal of the DayAdvertisement Most PopularViewedCommented1.Adventure Island lifeguard dies after lightning strike2.St. Pete veteran killed by exploding scuba tank3.2 dead, 22 wounded in Palmetto nightclub shooting4.Lions top Bucs 27-20 in season-opener5.Police: Alarm system customers victimized by identity theft1.Obama jobs plan heartens frustrated blacks(244)2.Lions top Bucs 27-20 in season-opener(106)3.In opener, as Lions roared, Bucs bored(91)4.Daytona Beach man shoots himself in hand instead of snake(50)5.Florida senator proposes law to curb tax fraud(36) More Ways to ConnectEmailFacebookTwitterMobileRSSAdvertisement





Advertisement








Coupons and Deals



Games, Puzzles & Trivia



Advergaming and Branded Media





www2.tbo.com    


www2.tbo.com:
Contact Us
|
Site Map
|
Member Agreement / Privacy Statement
|
Media General Operations Credit Terms and Conditions
|
Work With Us

Partners:
EEO Public Filings
|
Children's Programming
|
FCC Form 388
|
Closed Captioning
|
Subscribe / Manage Tampa Tribune Account
|
Corrections































