Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People Missing




Advertise
Sitemap
Mobile
Twitter
Facebook
Search


Site
                    



                       Web
                    

Business
                    













  



MyFox Alerts
NFL Sunday on FOX13: Chicago @ New Orleans - NOON
Vote for FOX13's GAME OF THE WEEK
Like FOX13 on Facebook
Follow FOX13 on Twitter
Take FOX13 On the Go with MyFoxMemphis Mobile Apps






TV Schedule
#MyFoxBuzz
Daily Deal
Job Shop
Good News
PETS
GasTracker
Experts
Yellow Pages





Home
News




News
Local
National
International
Politics
OffBeat
Education
SciTech


Faith
News Tips
Web Links
Crime





Weather




Weather
Severe Weather
Winter Weather
Forecasts
Closings
Photo Gallery





Traffic
Sports




Sports
Local Sports
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
NBA
NFL
HS Sports
Blitz


MLB
Tigers
SEC
Coaches





Money




Money
Markets
Money Wise





Health
Entertainment




Entertainment
American Idol
Music
Movies
Television
Celebrity News
Station Sched
TMZ


Dogs
Cats
Online Family
Your Baby
Healthy Living
Style
Theatre





Good Morning




Good Morning
Bargains
Weather Baby





About Us




About Us
EEO Reports
Public File
Advertise
Contact Us
Personalities
Work for Us
Programming


DTV Change
CC Problems





Marketplace




Marketplace
Autos
Experts










Jobs
Autos
FOXWheels
+

WhatWhereLocal listings from all over 80,000 websites.






Home : News : 













Video
Photo










 Bastro wildfire. (MyFox Houston) 



Firefighters continue fighting a wildfire in Bastrop, Texas. (MyFOX Houston)


PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size2/2















Trial Begins in Pizza Delivery MurderPeggy Faulkner took the witness stand first Tuesday. She …



Troubled Teen Strikes AgainA teenager accused of killing his Cordova neighbor after …



Endangered Child Alert in West Tenn.A West Tennessee endangered child alert has been issued for …



Gadhafi's Son Seeks Niger AsylumA son of Moammar Gadhafi and three of his generals were trying …



Combatting Voter FatigueThe season where campaign signs greet you at intersections, …



New Evidence Cites More BP Oil ErrorsA BP scientist identified a previously unreported deposit of …



Asian Markets Edge HigherAsian markets made a promising start Wednesday, with both Japan…



G'town, C'ville Planning to Leave SCSTwo suburban Memphis cities continue their pursuit to create …



Liverpool Striker: 9/11 Not TerroristsLiverpool striker Nathan Eccleston was under investigation by …



Motorcyclist: Heroes Lifted CarThe university math students heard the crash, saw the smoke and…






Firefighters Make Progress Against Texas Blazes, Officials Say More Than 20 People MissingUpdated: Sunday, 11 Sep 2011, 3:28 PM CDTPublished : Saturday, 10 Sep 2011, 3:23 PM CDT


(NewsCore) - Texas officials were planning to allow more residents back into neighborhoods damaged by the largest of the state's devastating wildfires Sunday after announcing the Bastrop County blaze was roughly 50 percent contained, The Austin American-Statesman reported. But authorities said a number of people remained unaccounted for after the Bastrop blaze, which consumed roughly 34,000 acres, destroyed 1,554 homes and killed at least two people, The Statesman reported. They stressed, however, that does not mean any of the missing are dead. "We have about 17 people we have not heard from," Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said during a news conference Sunday, according to the newspaper. "Some of these people may have [been] on vacation, or whatever." That number was later revised to 22, made up of 12 individuals and five couples. Pickering asked anyone reported missing to contact the sheriff's department, so authorities can "check them off the list," The Statesman reported. The number of homes presumed destroyed by the fire also increased to 1,554 from under 1,400, The Statesman reported Sunday, citing Bastrop County Emergency Management Corridor Mike Fisher. He noted that the number is expected to rise even further. County officials told the newspaper Saturday evening that the Bastrop fire is now 50 percent contained, up from 40 percent earlier in the day. Two people have been confirmed dead in the fire located east of Bastrop, which is roughly 30 miles (48km) southeast of Austin. The first was identified as 48-year-old Michael Troy Farr. The second victim was identified Saturday as 58-year-old Vickie Faye Keenan, The Statesman reported. Meanwhile, the Houston Chronicle reported Sunday that firefighters are making progress battling a massive fire north of Houston, which is now about 65 percent contained. "If the winds don't get any stronger, then things will be great for us," fire service spokesman Ralph Collum told the Chronicle. The fire had burned through 18,468 acres as of Sunday morning, the newspaper said, which is down from an earlier estimate of 21,619 acres. One business and 59 homes have been destroyed in that blaze, the Chronicle reported. A woman and her 18-month-old daughter also died in the wildfires that have rampaged across the state in recent weeks. They were killed Sept. 4 when they were unable to escape their home between Gladewater and Liberty City, 43 miles (69km) northeast of Houston. President Barack Obama declared Texas a major disaster zone on Friday, ordering federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the affected areas.     Read more:  Austin-American Statesman   


















Top News



Trial Begins in Pizza Delivery Murder


Troubled Teen Strikes Again


Endangered Child Alert in West Tenn.


Gadhafi's Son Seeks Niger Asylum


Combatting Voter Fatigue





New Evidence Cites More BP Oil Errors


Asian Markets Edge Higher


G'town, C'ville Planning to Leave SCS


Liverpool Striker: 9/11 Not Terrorists


Motorcyclist: Heroes Lifted Car



















Most Popular Pages | MyFoxMemphis.com

















Suggested Search









Advertisement

  































Tweet
















 E-mail
 Print
 Bookmark



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More













Leave Your Comments


   








Advertisement

  

  






Marketplace











Advertisement












  





Home
News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Money
Health
Entertainment
Good Morning
About Us
Marketplace


Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Feedback
TV RatingsMany pages in this Fox Television Stations, Inc. web site feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to Fox Television Stations, Inc. Fox Television Stations, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2011 Fox Television Stations, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.




















Tweet
















 E-mail
 Print
 Bookmark



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More


