Legal - News Republic







Terms and Conditions



The content on this site (News republic) is provided by mobile republic. Please 
read these terms and conditions carefully, they are the terms of use for this 
site as provided by News republic


1. User obligation
Use of this site constitutes your acknowledgement and acceptance of these Terms 
and Conditions, which take effect on the date on which you first use the site. 
By accessing, using and/or downloading materials from this site, you agree on 
your own behalf and on behalf of each entity and person on whose behalf you act 
to abide by the terms and conditions set forth below. News republic reserves the 
right to change these Terms and Conditions at any time by posting changes online 
and it is your responsibility to refer to and comply with these terms on 
accessing the site. Your continued use of this site after changes are posted 
constitutes your acceptance of these terms and conditions as modified.
If these Terms and Conditions are not accepted in full, you do not have 
permission to access the contents of this site and therefore should cease using 
this site immediately.
If there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and rules and/or 
specific terms of use appearing on this site relating to specific material then 
the latter shall prevail.

2. Copyright and Other Intellectual Property
The names, images and logos identifying News republic, associated companies or 
third parties and their products and services are proprietary marks of News 
republic, its associated companies and/or third parties. Nothing contained 
herein shall be construed as conferring by implication or otherwise any license 
or right under any trade mark or patent of News republic, its associated 
companies or any other third party.
All copyright, trade marks and other intellectual property rights in this site 
(including the design, arrangement and look and feel) and all material or 
content supplied as part of the site shall remain at all times the property of 
News republic or News republic's licensors. In accessing the News republic site, 
you agree that you do so only for your own personal, non-commercial use. You may 
not agree to, permit or assist in any way any third party to copy, reproduce, 
download, post, store, distribute, transmit, broadcast, commercially exploit or 
modify in any way the material or content without News republic's prior written 
permission.


3. Data posting
Where you are invited to submit any contribution to News republic (including any 
text, photographs, graphics, video or audio) you agree, by submitting your 
contribution, to grant the News republic a perpetual, royalty-free, 
non-exclusive, sub-licenseable right and license to use, reproduce, modify, 
adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, distribute, perform, 
play, make available to the public, and exercise all copyright and publicity 
rights with respect to your contribution worldwide and/or to incorporate your 
contribution in other works in any media now known or later developed for the 
full term of any rights that may exist in your contribution. If you do not want 
to grant News republic the rights set out above, please do not submit your 
contribution. By submitting your contribution to News republic, you warrant that 
your contribution;
3.1 is your own original work and that you have the right to make it available 
for all the purposes specified above;
3.2 is not defamatory; and 3.3 does not infringe any law; and 3.4 indemnify News 
republic against all legal fees, damages and other expenses that may be incurred 
by News republic as a result of your breach of the above warranty; and 3.5 waive 
any moral rights in your contribution for the purposes of its submission to and 
publication on eatslpeepsport.com and the purposes specified above.

4. Terms of use
The use of this site is only for lawful purposes, in a manner which does not 
infringe the rights of or restrict or inhibit the use and enjoyment of this site 
by any third party. Such restriction or inhibition includes, but is not limited 
to, conduct which is defamatory, or which may harass, cause distress or 
inconvenience to any person and the transmission of obscene or offensive content 
or interruption of the normal flow of dialogue within this site.


5. Third Party Sites / Links
News republic is not responsible for the availability or content of any third 
party websites or material you access through this site. If you decide to visit 
any linked site, you do so at your own risk and it is your responsibility to 
take all protective measures to guard against viruses or other destructive 
elements. News republic does not endorse and is not responsible or liable for 
any content, advertising, products, services or information on or available from 
third party websites or material (including payment for and delivery of such 
products or services). News republic is not responsible for any damage, loss or 
offence caused by or, in connection with, any content, advertising, products, 
services or information available on such websites or material. Any terms, 
conditions, warranties or representations associated with such dealings, are 
solely between you and the relevant provider of the service.
Links to this site must be direct to any complete content page (and not any part 
of a page) within News republic and must not be viewed within the pages of any 
other site. News republic disclaims all liability for any legal or other 
consequences (including for infringement of third party rights) of links made to 
this site.
Links do not imply that News republic endorses, is affiliated or associated with 
any linked site, or is legally authorised to use any trademark, trade name, logo 
or copyright symbol displayed in or accessible through the links, News republic 
or that any linked site is authorised to use any trademark, trade name, logo or 
copyright symbol of or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries.

6. Disclaimer/Limitation of Liability
This site and the information, names, images, pictures, logos and icons relating 
to www.News republic.om, News republic and/or any 
associated company, products and services (or to third party products and 
services), is provided "AS IS" and on an "AS AVAILABLE" basis without any 
representation or endorsement being made and without warranty of any kind, 
including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, 
fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security and 
accuracy.
The information and other materials included on this site may contain 
inaccuracies and typographical errors. .com does not warrant the accuracy or 
completeness of the information and materials or the reliability of any 
statement or other information displayed or distributed through the site 
(including, without limitation, the information provided through the use of any 
software). You acknowledge that any reliance on any such statement or 
information shall be at your sole risk. News republic reserves the right, in its 
sole discretion, to correct any errors or omissions in any part of the site and 
to make changes to the site and to the materials, products, programs, services 
or prices described in the site at any time without notice. In no event will 
News republic and/or third parties be liable for any damages including, but not 
limited to, indirect or consequential damages or any damages including, but not 
limited to, errors or omissions, indirect or consequential damages or any 
damages whatsoever arising from use, loss of use, data or profits, whether in 
action of contract, negligence or other action, arising out of or in connection 
with the use of the site. These exclusions do not apply to death or personal 
injury caused by News republic's negligence and only applies to the extent 
permitted by law.
News republic does not warrant that the functions contained in this site will be 
uninterrupted or error free or that defects will be corrected or that this site 
or the server that makes it available are free of viruses or bugs. News republic 
does not represent the full functionality, accuracy or reliability of any 
material. News republic may terminate, change, suspend or discontinue any aspect 
of this site, including the availability of any features of the site, at any 
time without notice or liability.


7. Software
From time to time certain software which is the protected work of News republic 
or its suppliers may be made available to download from this site. You are 
licensed to use the software on a non-exclusive basis only for the purposes for 
which it is indicated. You may not use the software for any other purpose and 
may not redistribute, sell, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or 
otherwise deal with the software.


8. Indemnity
You agree to indemnify and keep indemnified News republic from and against all 
claims, damages, expenses, costs and liabilities arising in any manner from your 
entry to and use of the site other than in accordance with these terms and 
conditions.


9. Law and jurisdiction
These Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of England. Disputes arising herefrom shall be exclusively subject to 
the jurisdiction of the courts of England. Any cause of action you may have with 
respect to your use of this site must be commenced within one (1) year after the 
claim or cause of action arises.
If any of these Terms and Conditions should be determined to be illegal, invalid 
or otherwise unenforceable by reason of the law of any state or country in which 
these Terms and Conditions are intended to be effective, then to the extent and 
within the jurisdiction in which that Term or Condition is illegal, invalid or 
unenforceable, it shall be severed and deleted from that clause and the 
remaining terms and conditions shall survive and continue to be binding and 
enforceable.
News republic makes no representation that materials on this site are 
appropriate or available for use at other locations outside of the United 
Kingdom and access to them from territories where their contents are illegal is 
prohibited. If you access this site from a location outside of the United 
Kingdom, you are responsible for compliance with all local laws.


