What kind of cameras do professional photographers use? | PHOTOGRAPHS






PHOTOGRAPHS





 


 
 

What kind of cameras do professional photographers use?



 
i mean professional photographers as like the photo journalists and the ones who take beautiful, artistic photographs. do they use slr? and if so is there a camera that you suggest?
Most professionals go with Canon cameras (for medium format). However, I prefer Nikons. It's not always the camera that makes a piece of art, but the artist himself.
 I will give you a link to a fantastic, educational photography site by some of the best photographers in the world. They have a lot of free things you may avail yourself to—newsletters, photo of the day email, forums, blogs. there are also tons of excellent courses to take online, as well as monthly contests and photo clubs. Check it out. I think you will like it! also, they have camera reviews that will help with your actual question.
 Also, under PHOTOS, check out the Editor's First Picks to some of the kinds of photos are being submitted. Click on the thumbnails and they enlarge. Reload the page and you just get more and more photos to view.
 I have learned so much from the site in less than a year.
 Best wishes
 betterphoto.com
You ask for KIND – so I'll answer in KIND.
 True photojournalist (the kind that works for newspaper) all use DIGITAL SLR. in the old days photographer would rush back to have the pictures developed. but with digital that whole process is eliminated. And if they are remote (like reporting from L.A. and their headquarter is in NYC) they just upload it to their editor. all in all it solves many problems.
 Many "artists" are starving so they cannot afford much. so they also use DSLR. but I've seen few really great artists that use comsumer (high-end) P&S. That's because DSLR does NOT allow LCD viewing prior to shooting. but in general DSLR is the way to go. Another reason is that artist often have to choose "improper" lens for different effect. DSLR allows the artist to switch lens. NO P&S cameras has this possiblity.
 Some artist still use film SLR. BW are still superior when done in film (at least in my opinion). also there are many film effects that is still easier in film. but in general I think DSLR is superior to 35mm.
 Many of the photographer who shoot for magazine use digital Hassi ($30,000). I think it is because editors are impressed by them more than the quality. I wouldn't know for sure because I have no experience in D-Hassi. I just know from experience that DSLR are plenty good.
 === Many portraitist and wedding photograhers are using DSLR because (a) the quality is very good (b) it dramatically cuts their costs (no film and processing costs).
 So as you can see DSLR has pretty much taken over.
 Good Luck.
 P.S. just in case you want to know specifics – I've used Canon 10D, Nikon D70 and Fuji S2 pro. I still own the Fuji and Nikon but I use mostly the Nikon.
 P.P.S. as other posters wrote above, it isn't the equipments, it is the techniques of the photographer that makes the picture great.
Nikon and Canon .. 
 We use both 35mm SLR's and DSLR's depending upon the requirements of the assignment.
 It isn't the camera, but the photographer who captures the image.
 kenrockwell.com/tech/notcamera.ht…
I use Nikons and many of my photo buddies on the sidelines use Canons. there are a FEW exceptions, but when you look at press photographers or sports shooters, that's what we use.
 I currently use some older Nikon D70 and D50 cameras. Some of my buddies uses D200, D100, D2H, & D80 models. The Canon group uses a similar range, from prosumer to top drawer hardware.
 Much of our investment goes into the glass, the optics that make the great picture possible. for that reason, with exception, we usually stick with the OEM (Canon or Nikon) lenses.
 My suggestion? It depends on your photographic interests, skills, and personal style. for portraits, Nikon lenses impress me. for sports, Canon leads in longer, faster optics. for photojournalism, it's pretty even.
 If you're on a budget and just beginning, a Nikon D40, D40x, or a Canon Rebel XTi is a great foundation. dpreview.com/reviews/nikond40…
 The next level up, includes the excellent Nikon D80 and the equivalent Canon EOS 30D. dpreview.com/reviews/nikond80…
 Next up, consider the solid Nikon D200/D300 or the Canon 40D. dpreview.com/previews/nikond3…
 If you have a generous uncle or don't plan on having a mortgage for a while, consider a Nikon D2/D3 or the Canon EOS-1. dpreview.com/previews/nikond3…
 The bottomline, is this – which camera fits your hands, your style, and your needs? That's a question that only you can answer as you try different models out and flinch at the price tags!
 By the way, a great camera with one lens gives you the opportunity for great pictures. A great camera with more than one lens and and extra flash, gives you a great system for many kinds of great pictures.
 Moral: Don't spend all of your money one just one camera. Look at the beginings of your system.
 One more bit of info: jdpower.com/electronics/ratin…
 I hope you find this helpful.

 









 



The commodities trader: ‘I have no residual effects other than sorrow’Lost Gallery: The Popularity ContestGautam Rajadhyaksha passes away in MumbaiLondon building picturesPortraits Of Power: Nike Women With Annie Leibovitz PhotographyFashion’s Night Out becomes a retail extravaganzaWedding Pictures Secrets: Suggestions For Taking The Greatest Marriage ceremony Day Photographs DoableSerena Williams beats Caroline Wozniacki to reach US Open 2011 finalHow to Make Money Selling Digital PhotographsHow do I merge 2 photographs into one in easy steps.  I've got photoshop3 but will buy new easy software? 






            © 2011 
                PHOTOGRAPHS            



Pages 
Privacy Policy

 




