Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies    Yaroslavl :  Russia
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By Ljubica Vujadinovic            5 0      
Views: 870
         The only surviving member of a Russian ice hockey team plane crash last week, Alexander Galimov (26), has died Monday morning in Moscow hospital.  Galimov, who suffered severe burns that covered 90% of his body as well as his respiratory system, had been treated at the Vishnevsky Hospital, known for its burn unit, which is considered to be one of the best in Russia. "We did everything possible to save him," Head of the burn centre at Vishnevsky Institute, Andrei Alekseev, was quoted saying by RIA Novosti. Galimov was a native of Yaroslavl, and had played with the club since his youth. In 2005, he was in the silver-medal winning Russian U20 team at the 2005 World Junior Ice-Hockey Championships. He also played for the national senior selection. At rallies after the crash, fans had chanted “Galimov, live for the whole team!”. The 36 Lokomotiv players and staff, who died in the Yak-42 crash, were commemorated by some 100,000 mourners, including Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on Saturday, on the stadium rink in Yaroslavl.  Amid the tragedy, the club announced it will not take part in this year's Kontinental Hockey League season. Meanhwile, the only one of eight Yak-42 crew members who survived the crash, flight engineer Alexander Sizov, has been moved from intensive care to a ward. According to the hospital officials, his state is not life-threatening.        1 of 41        
Undated handout picture shows Alexander Galimov of KHL Russian ice hockey team Lokomotiv
         
Ljubica Vujadinovic is based in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Serbia,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (48.1%) Canada (13.8%) Philippines (8.5%) Colombia (5.0%) 35 other countries (20.4%)           READ MORE: alexander galimov, Lokomotiv, plane crash, rusia, ice hockey, disasters-news, putin, crash survivor, Lokomotiv Yaroslavl, Russian ice hockey team   More News From: Yaroslavl :  Russia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 1            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
May Alexander finally find eternal peace at last.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Alexander Galimov: The Last Survivor of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Died Today ... By: madn3wz       
MOSCOW, Russia (Monday, Sept. 12) – Alexander Galimov died today in a Moscow hospital due to his fatal burn injuries after hanging between life and death for five days.
The 26-year-old Alexander Galimov was the last survivor of a top Russian hockey team, Lokomotiv Yaroslavl, which was killed in a http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-...  about 21 hours ago     Plane survivor dies of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl By: kingston23      One of two survivors of the crash of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl, occurred last week, died in Moscow, because of his injuries.Galimov Alexander is a member of the hockey club Lokomotiv Yaroslavl.Galimov was found alive among the wreckage, but had suffered severe burns.The other survivor, a member of the crew of the ship is still under treatment in Moscow....  about 22 hours ago     Only hockey team survivor of plane crash dies By: nazish7       Alexander
Galimov, only  survivor of Russian ice hockey player in last week's plane crash which killed 44
people, has died in Moscow hospital.
Vishnevsky hospital said Alexander Galimov died Monday morning of the severe burns that covered about 90 per cent of his body.
The only other person to survive, a member of the flight crew, ...  1 day ago     43 killed in Russian ice hockey team air disaster By: raheemgul       TUNOSHNA, Russia, Sept 8, 2011 (AFP) - A jet carrying a major Russian ice hockey team to their season-opening match has crashed shortly after take-off, killing at least 43 people, including several former Olympic and NHL stars.The Yak-42 was flying members of three-time Russian champions Lokomotiv Yaroslavl to a game in the Belarussian ...  1 day ago     (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players ... By: ahmedibrahem      
 They came by the tens of thousands to mourn, from world leaders to ice hockey stars to ordinary Russians, with flowers and tears and aching hearts.
 
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on Saturday joined a reported 100,000 mourners gathered at the hockey arena in Yaroslavl to pay their respects to the local team who perished in a ...  2 days ago     Putin honored the deceased hockey player  By: tahirbubak      
Top team Lokomotiv Yaroslavl lost almost all their players before the series opened in Russia, as an aircraft of the Jak-42 crashed near the town of Yaroslavl on Wednesday.
Saturday was the dead honored during a memorial ceremony on the hockey team's home stadium in Yaroslavl.
Present were, among other things, Putin, and moved Prime ...  2 days ago     Ceremony held for Russian hockey team after deadly plane crash By: alibux4       Thousands gathered in the Russian city of Yaroslavl to say farewell to members of the Lokomotiv ice hockey team who were killed in a plane crash earlier this week. 
 
The ceremony on Saturday marked the official end of a three-day mourning period for the 43 dead, many of them players or staff from the top-level professional ice ...  2 days ago     (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral ... By: marvendumaguit      (Check It Out! 20+ Photos!) YAROSLAVL, Russia- Thousands of mourners filled the city's hockey arena on Saturday, September 10, to give respect on the funeral service of the 43 people who were killed on a plane crash including the 36 players, coaches and staff of the three-time Russian world champion Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey ...  2 days ago     Man U reach out to Russia after plane crash kills 36 top ice hockey ... By: aniskhan26      Manchester United have written to Russian ice hockey club Lokomotiv
Yaroslavl to offer support and sympathy in the wake of the plane crash
that killed 36 people connected with the team and seven crew.Old
Trafford chief executive David Gill acted after hearing of a tragedy
that bears unsettling similarities to the Munich air disaster, which ...  3 days ago     VIDEO: Dynamo Minsk's heartbreaking tribute to Lokomotiv Yaroslavl By: madn3wz       
MINSK, Belarus – Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) season’s opening was postponed due to the gloomy incident in which 37 members of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl died in Wednesday's plane crash while on their way to Minsk to open the KHL season.
When the Russian Yak-42 jet aircraft   3 days ago     It is really difficult right now By: nabeela2001      
It's so heavy ... I can not talk more, says Hans-Göran Frick, in the famous hockey player's previous club HV 71, till the Swedish news agency TT.
The Swedish ice hockey player was one of at least 43 people were killed in plane crash in Yaroslavl in central Russia Wednesday . Two will have survived the crash, but the ...  4 days ago     Russian Ice Hockey team Plane crashed - 43 people died including NHL ... By: kalex      
Russian
Ice Hockey team Plane crashed reported killing 43 people including KHL members.
The plane was a Yak-42 aircraft and the accident
happened at Tunoshna Airport which was outside Yaroslavl about
 250 km north to Moscow. Players and coaches of the Ice hockey team Lokomotiv were
there inside the plane.
Among
...  4 days ago     Medvedev: Must cut number of airlines in Russia after Yak-42 crash By: karasiwo      Yaroslavl,
Russia - Russian President Dmitry Medvedev on Thursday denounced the
state of civil aviation to visit the place where a plane crashed near
Yaroslavl, an accident that killed 43 people, mostly members of a team ice hockey.
The
Russian head of state called for a "thorough investigation" and
denounced the poor state of air ...  4 days ago     Russia mourns over Airplane crash which killed 43 people including ... By: Shabi1987       
People mourn over the crash as it
killed 43 but also their hockey players.The plane was landed in the river in
the north of moscow.Fans were very sad the things went many went to stadium in
their memory just after the crash putting the flowers close to the stadium
others were crying.Some prayed before going to home .A gloomy atmosphere ...  4 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Only player to survive Russian plane crash dies  
The Boston Globe
 The only member of a top Russian hockey team to survive a plane crash that killed 44 people died Monday of his injuries in a Moscow hospital. The Vishnevsky hospital said 26-year-old Alexander Galimov died of the severe burns that covered about 90...    Ice hockey player Alexander Galimov dies of injuries after plane crash  
The Guardian
 Maxim Shipenkov/EPA Russian ice hockey player Alexander Galimov, one of two survivors of last week's plane crash which killed 43 people, has died in hospital. Moscow's Vishnevsky Institute of Surgery confirmed the 26-year-old Lokomotiv Yaroslavl...    Hockey player who escaped plane crash dies  
The Courier-Mail
 Alexander Galimov, 26, was the only member of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl team aboard the doomed flight who initially survived last Wednesday's crash, Ria Novosti news agency reported. He was transferred to a hospital in Moscow after suffering 90 per...    Only hockey player to survive Russian plane crash dies  
San Jose Mercury News
 The only member of a top Russian hockey team to survive a plane crash that killed 44 people died Monday of his injuries in a Moscow hospital. The Vishnevsky hospital said 26-year-old Alexander Galimov died of the severe burns that covered about 90...    Last Russian ice hockey team member dies  
ITN
 Head of the burn centre at Vishnevsky Institute, Andrei Alexeyev, said: "We did everything we could do to change the course of events and to save his life, but unfortunately what we were dealing with were deadly burns." The Soviet-designed Yak-42...    Lone Russian plane crash survivor dies in hospital  
Leader Post Online
 The last remaining player of Russia's top hockey team died Monday after a four-day battle with severe burns, bringing the toll from last week's plane crash to 44 people, a Moscow hospital said. Lokomotiv winger Alexander Galimov was one of two people...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Undated handout picture shows ...    Undated handout picture shows ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Undated handout picture shows Alexander Galimov of KHL Russian ice hockey ...        The plane was carrying members ...    The plane was carrying members ... Image Source: www.afp.com The plane was carrying members of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey team, ...        Fans of the Lokomotiv ice ...    Fans of the Lokomotiv ice ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Fans of the Lokomotiv ice hockey team grieve near a stadium in Yaroslavl        Russia mourned the loss of 43 ...    Russia mourned the loss of 43 ... Image Source: www.afp.com Russia mourned the loss of 43 people when a private plane carrying a hockey ...        Forty-three people were killed ...    Forty-three people were killed ... Image Source: www.afp.com Forty-three people were killed when a plane carrying a Russian ice hockey ...        A fan of Lokomotiv ice hockey ...    A fan of Lokomotiv ice hockey ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A fan of Lokomotiv ice hockey team grieves near the ice hockey arena in ...      More Related Images    More From Yaroslavl          Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies        Russia Bids Farewell to Hockey Players Killed in Crash        (Photos & Video) 100000 attend memorial for Russian hockey players killed in plane         Ceremony held for Russian hockey team after deadly plane crash          Russia takes farewell of crash victims         (In Pictures) Thousands Gathered at Lokomotiv Hockey Team's Funeral Service in Russia        Stefan Liv honored in ceremonies today       Yakovlev Yak-42          Medvedev require radical reform of the Russian aviation industry         President criticizes Russia's aviation safety         It is really difficult right now        Medvedev wants a specific investigation on the plane crash          Russia plane crash 44 dead                 Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10315849          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 23       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 43       Comments: 1    1       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10315849), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10315849 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10315849 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10315849-last-lokomotiv-yaroslavl-team-member-alexander-galimov-dies.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         