Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte Dumas                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte Dumas    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By BMcPherson            9 1      
Views: 584
        Monday, Sept. 12, 2011 UTC 17:56 It has been ten years since death fell out of the sky onto unsuspecting Americans. Stories have been told of tragedy and heroism. Rescue dogs were a crucial part of the efforts immediately after the collapse of the Twin Towers and later in the search for the dead.  Photographer artist Charlotte Dumas has compiled a book of portraits of the survivors of that terrible day. She traveled across the USA to capture their aging images. Dumas managed to photograph the 15 survivors and has compiled a book Retrieved which is now available for purchase. She has made available for auction, September 29, five of her photographs. The money gained will go to the First Responder Alliance, an organization that helps many of the early workers and volunteers at the Twin Tower site who are coping with health and job issues. For further information on the auction check out the Click Gallery and Bookstore. The portraits are of dignified, elderly veterans now in their twilight months. For dog lovers, the simple dignity of the canines will bring tears to your eyes. For anyone, these courageous veterans deserve our regard and respect. Rescue dogs are a special sort. They can be any breed as long as they are large enough to be effective. At the time of the attack on the USA, there were 200 able bodied certified rescue dogs. One of those deployed was a black American Labrador named Jake. He was found on the street as a puppy by Mary Flood who nursed him back to health and trained him to be a “US Government Certified” rescue dog. Jake’s career included work in the New York disaster and New Orleans in the aftermath of Katrina and later Hurricane Rita. As he aged, he helped train younger dogs for rescue work and worked as a therapy animal and visited the elderly. Ever a trooper, he developed cancer and was euthanized in 2007 at the age of 12 years. Moving ceremonies were held in New York commemorating tenth year of the terrorist attacks. New Yorkers did not forget their canine rescuers. Liberty State Park, Jersey City saw a salute to rescue dogs. A team from the NY police department is still a working unit. Max and Brian Fitzpatrick are the lone team from that awful day and honoured the ceremony with their presence.        1 of 2              Portraits of the 15 surviving rescue dogs that worked at the 9/11 site are compiled in book Retrieved by animal photographer Charlotte Dumas.          
BMcPherson is based in Nanaimo, British Columbia, Canada,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (65.7%) Canada (11.0%) China (4.0%) United Kingdom (3.1%) 27 other countries (13.2%)           READ MORE: Charlotte Dumas, photography, rescue dogs, 9/11, jake rescue dog, Twin Towers, retrieved   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     Robert Weller
|
about 12 hours
ago
  
They usually don't get mentioned so I will do it myself here. There is special group of dogs, some trained here, some in California and some elsewhere. They are sent in when it is presumed there are many dead. They are called cadaver dogs. It's a job no dog would want any more than a fireman. They specialize in finding bodies. It can really adversely affect them. Dogs can get the equivalent of PTSD. And unlike a rescue dog there is no happiness.
            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news of the rescue dogs.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                Images    >         Rescue workers remove a man ...    Rescue workers remove a man ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Rescue workers remove a man from the World Trade Center tower in New York ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          US OPEN 2011 REPLAY: Novak Djokovic VS. Rafael Nadal REPLAY        Palestinian UN Bid Update        Photos of Lady Gaga Wore Underwear - Thanks to Her        Novak Djokovic wins his first U.S. Open           Tennis / U.S. open : Nadal could with the number 1        J. Lo continued to Bradley Cooper?        POSERS..       Straight A’s Movie (2012)          Rocking Armani        Jessica Chastain and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Join Mama        Hotel Transylvania Movie (2012)        Chronicle Movie (2012)         Drive Movie Trailer                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10315194          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 0       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 2       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10315194), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10315194 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10315194 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte Dumas” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10315194-remembering-the-courageous-911-rescue-dogs-saluted-by-charlotte-dumas.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        