Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash of the Yak-42 near Yaroslavl, is in satisfactory condition and moved out of intensive care in a general ward                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash of the Yak-42 near Yaroslavl, is in satisfactory condition and moved out of intensive care in a general ward    Kiev :  Ukraine
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By saadkhan            7 0      
Views: 561
       This was announced on Monday, September 12, the head of the Department of Health in Moscow, Leonid printers."Sizov was in satisfactory condition. He underwent surgery today and was transferred from intensive care in a general ward", - quotes RIA Novosti news agency Pechatnikova. According to him, life is not threatened a flight attendant. We recall the Yak-42 crashed on Wednesday, September 7, climb about a mile from the airport Tunoshna near Yaroslavl. On board were members of the hockey club Lokomotiv, who flew to Minsk for the first round game of the regular season of the Continental Hockey League (CHL).On board were 45 people - 37 passengers and eight crew members. As a result, the crash killed 43 people, including three citizens of Ukraine - Vitaly Anikeenko, Daniel and Alexander Sobchenko Vyuhin. They managed to survive and the hockey player Aleksandr Sizov Galimov, but in today Galimov died.Russian Transport Ministry is considering two versions of the Yak-42 crash near Yaroslavl - technical fault plane and the human factor. Version of that aircraft did not have enough runway for takeoff, was not confirmed.        1 of 1        
A man places a poster to commemorate the victims of a plane crash near an ice hockey arena in Yaroslav
    
saadkhan is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  Canada (60.1%) United States of America (21.5%) Sweden (4.2%) Finland (2.9%) 24 other countries (9.3%)           READ MORE: Alexander Sizov flight attendant, crash, hockey, people, Russia, plane, Plan, Russian, crashed, aircraft   More News From: Kiev :  Ukraine      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 5            Reply  Posted By     Ammaduddin
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
rated up for this report sharing.Thanks
            Reply  Posted By     Ruby1204
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
This is a detailed report. Good job done. Rates up.
            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news report of the survivor of the plane crash.
            Reply  Posted By     kingston23
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
well written and detailed report ,thanks for sharing ,rated up your post
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing,saadkhan.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Recover the bodies of 36 players of Lokomotiv (Images) By: anawili      Doctors struggle to save the life of the only two survivors of the accident, the hockey player Aleksandr Sizov Galímov and Alexander, one of the eight crew of the Yak-42.
Rescuers recovered the bodies of 43 victims offatal among them 36 members of the hockey team Lokomotiv , who caused the http://www.as.com/mas-deporte/...  4 days ago     Russian plain crash : Medvedev calls for a "thorough investigation" ... By: lalag      Russian President Dmitry Medvedev on Thursday denounced the state of civil aviation in Russia by visiting the website of the plane crash that killed 43 people, near Yaroslavl, mostly members of the team Local Hockey, including international stars.Ironically, the head of the Russian state was expected Thursday in Yaroslavl (300 km northeast of ...  4 days ago     Jet with hockey team crashes in Russia, killing 43 By: skooter      Skooter reporting 09/08/11
The chartered Yak-42 jet carrying a Russian professional hockey team went
down shortly after takeoff Wednesday, killing 43 people as well as European and
former NHL players. The hockey team was on their way to its first game of the
season. The plane crash was one of the worst aviation disasters in sports
...  5 days ago     Plane carrying Russian Lokomotiv ice hockey team crashes, 43 killed By: hkbadal      A chartered plane carrying Russia's ice hockey team Lokomotiv has crashed after taking-off near the central city of Yaroslavl, killing 43 people.
Russian emergency officials said there were some international players in the team including several players of National Hockey League veterans.
Seriously injured two people, Russian player Alexander ...  5 days ago     Russian airliner involves in fatal crash By: zeedzee       
A plane carrying members of a Russian league ice hockey team has crashed  shortly after taking off in the city of Yaroslavl  north-east of Moscow. Russia.
This aircraft had on board  Lokomotiv Yaroslavl  ice hockey team Though design to carry more then 100 passenger[ usually 100 to 120 ] only 42 people were in ...  5 days ago     Russia, plane crashes after takeoff, 36 dead  By: mus1423      
 A Russian airliner Yak-42 crashed on takeoff at Yaroslav, killing 36 people. The Interfax news agency writes.
It 'still alive in one of the 37 passengers and aircrew personnel.
Yaroslav is about 300 kilometers northeast of Moscow. Among the victims, there would be the entire hockey team Lokomotiv Iaroslav, said sources.
  5 days ago     Reports: Plane crashes during takeoff in Russia, killing 36 By: alic10      A plane crashed as it took off from Russia's Yaroslavl airport, killing 36 people, Russian news agencies report.
The Yak-42 aircraft belonged to Yak-Service Airlines, the aviation authority told Interfax news agency.
Yaroslavl is located northeast of Moscow. The Yak-42 aircraft was taking members of a hockey team to Minsk, the
Belarusian ...  5 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Fans say final farewell to Lokomotiv 'sole survivor'  
Russia Today
 20 Lokomotiv Yaroslavl player Alexander Galimov. (RIA Novosti / Yaroslav Neelov) Thousands of followers of the tragic Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team have gathered to say a final farewell to Aleksandr Galimov, the last victim of the fatal Yak-42...    Crashed Yak-42 proven mechanically sound  
Russia Today
 Moscow doctors have stabilized the medical condition of ice hockey forward Aleksandr Galimov one of the two survivors of Wednesday's plane crash near the city of Yaroslavl. Most of his team, top KHL squad Lokomotiv, perished is the crash...The Yak-42...    Only player to survive Russian plane crash dies  
The Boston Globe
 The only member of a top Russian hockey team to survive a plane crash that killed 44 people died Monday of his injuries in a Moscow hospital. The Vishnevsky hospital said 26-year-old Alexander Galimov died of the severe burns that covered about 90...    Russian ice hockey star dies of injuries  
The Guardian
 Tatyana Zenkovich/EPA The only member of a Russian ice hockey team to survive a plane crash last week has died of his injuries. Aleksandr Galimov, 26, a player for the Yaroslavl Lokomotiv team, had severe burns which covered 90% of his body.    Ice hockey player Alexander Galimov dies of injuries after plane crash  
The Guardian
 Maxim Shipenkov/EPA Russian ice hockey player Alexander Galimov, one of two survivors of last week's plane crash which killed 43 people, has died in hospital. Moscow's Vishnevsky Institute of Surgery confirmed the 26-year-old Lokomotiv Yaroslavl...    Russian crash-survivor hockey player dies in hospital  
Russia Today
 The last surviving ice hockey player from the deadly Yak-42 aircraft has died in the hospital on Monday. Forward Aleksandr Galimov was one of only two survivors of the airplane crash, which claimed lives of all members of the major league hockey team...   More Related Stories     Images    >         A man places a poster to ...    A man places a poster to ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A man places a poster to commemorate the victims of a plane crash near an ...      More Related Images    More From Kiev          Exhibition highlights massacre of Jews       Djoko stutters but prevails in three        U.S. Open: Djokovic beats Davydenko in the second round         FastReport VCL RAD Edition Becomes Part of Embarcadero RAD Studio XE2 (Pulsar)          Ukraine battle tanks for sale in Thailand         Shale Gas: Shell will invest nearly $ 800 million in Ukraine       Ukraine: Curiosity – Immigration Authority To Be Reorganized        Ukrainian PM proposes to reduce Russian gas supplies          Andy Roddick of the U.S. Open tennis tournament semi-slum T. P. Winston reached faynlz        Ukrainians Nostalgic For Soviet Union Era        IMF delays Ukraine visit; urges more reforms        High quality academic writing service.          IMF delay Ukraine appointment; urge more reform                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10314633          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 22       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 4       Comments: 5    5       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10314633), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10314633 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10314633 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash of the Yak-42 near Yaroslavl, is in satisfactory condition and moved out of intensive care in a general ward” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10314633-alexander-sizov-flight-attendant-were-seriously-injured-in-the-crash-of-the-yak42-near-yaroslavl-is-in-satisfactory-condition-and-moved-out-of-int.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         