Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya     Nairobi :  Kenya
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By kingston23            1 0      
Views: 486
       About 120 people were burnt alive and over one hundred were hospitalized on Monday after the explosion and fire at a pipeline in a poor suburb of Nairobi, the capital of Kenya. "We estimate the death toll at more than 100," Thomas told AFP Atuti, police chief in the region. The explosion occurred in the industrial zone of Lunga Lunga, surrounded by the poor district of Sinai, densely populated. "There was a leaky pipe and people tried to get fuel," said a resident of the neighborhood, Joseph Mwego. "We heard a big explosion, a loud explosion and there were flames and smoke that reached to heaven," said one witness, Joseph Mwego. "People trying to steal the oil pipeline", confirmed to AFP a Red Cross official, who sent a rescue team to the site. An AFP reporter saw many charred bodies near the site of the explosion. Firefighters tried to contain the fire, while police put off neighbors disaster site. The authorities gave no official explanation, but according to local residents, the accident occurred when several people tried to take the gas pipe that crosses the region. There was a leak, or someone opened a valve.  An official of the municipality stated that "the registration of bodies recovered so far is 120. Is increased due to the bodies in the river" near the crash site, where some victims jumped to try to extinguish the flames that devoured. Police put a net into the river to prevent the corpses were dragged by the current. The head of one of the major hospitals in Nairobi, Richard Lesiampe, said 109 people were treated for burns. The Kenyan President Mwai KibakiMwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila OdingaRaila Odinga were on the scene and expressed their dismay. "It's terrible," said Odinga. "I've never seen anything like it in my life. I saw women and children burned, burned as firewood. The worst was a charred woman with her baby back," one resident told AFP, Francis Muendo. In 2009, 122 people died in western Kenya in the explosion of a tanker truck that had crashed and that people were trying to extract gasoline.        1 of 30        
The charred remains of a victim is seen at the scene of a fire at a slum in Nairobi
     
kingston23 is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (58.8%) Kenya (11.2%) Japan (6.7%) India (3.4%) 19 other countries (16.8%)           READ MORE: pipeline, explosion, kills 120 people, Kenya, Bodies, oil pipeline, death, blast, AFP Atuti, Slum, pipeline explosion   More News From: Nairobi :  Kenya      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          At least 120 people were reported dead following the explosion of an ... By: muhammadjusuf      At least 120 people were reported dead following the explosion of an oil pipeline in  
 
At least 120 people were reported dead following the explosion ofan oil pipeline in the capital city of Kenya, Nairobi, Monday, September 12, 2011."We expect&n...  about 5 hours ago     Kenya Pipelines Explode Killing 75 People By: dunite      
Kenyan officials suspected a group of people were trying to
siphon fuel from the pipeline running through a densely populated Nairobi slum
area when it exploded on Monday, flattening homes, reducing some bodies to dust
and forcing a massive evacuation, CNN said.
Charles Owino, a spokesman for Kenyan police said 75 people
died in the ...  about 8 hours ago     75 dead in pipeline explosion Kenya  By: lethibichlan      The explosion occurred in the industrial zone of the city Lunga Lunga, BBC reported. Police and military blockade of the area, while firefighters struggled to cope with the fire data in the surrounding slums.Also at least 75 people dead, while more than 110 people were taken to hospital, most of them suffered burns over 30 degrees.The tragedy ...  about 9 hours ago     At least 75 killed in Kenya pipeline explosion By: hkbadal      At least 75 people were killed and over 125 injured in an incident of fuel pipeline explosion in Kenya's capital Nairobi on Monday morning.
Officials said huge fire originated from the explosion that took place around 10 a.m. in the densely populated Lunga Lunga industrial area of the city, flattened many houses and reduced some bodies to dust.
...  about 16 hours ago     - More than 100 dead after explosion in oil pipeline By: nabeela2001      
The explosion happened when an oil pipeline sprang a leak at a fuel storage equal to at Lunga Lunga slum area in Nairobi.
According to news agency Reuters was a cigarette that ignited the gasoline in the line that had been leaking.
A large number of people died, but the number is not yet official.
- We have put deaths at over 100, ...  about 16 hours ago     The outbreak kills 75 in Kenya pipeline gas By: ZohaibAnwer       
NAIROBI  - An industrial pipe leaking gasoline exploded on Monday in the Kenyan capital, becoming part of a slum in an inferno that left 75 dead and 100 wounded.
The flames spread in a radius of about 275 meters (300 yards), burning shacks and calcining dozens of people. Later the bones were blackened journalists and groups of ...  about 17 hours ago     Scores killed in Kenya pipeline fire  By: Mary1      There have been some shocking scenes in Kenya, because more than a hundred people have died after fire swept through a densely populated slum in Nairobi.The blaze broke out in the Sinai zone of the Kenyan capital, after an explosion in a nearby oil pipeline. There is thought to have been a leak in that system.A spokesman for the Red Cross has ...  about 19 hours ago     Fire hits oil pipeline in slum in Kenya By: abdelfattah      Fire hits oil pipeline in slum in Kenya The explosion of a pipeline in a slum in the Kenyan capital left dozens dead early on Monday. The death toll from a fire can move from one hundred The pipeline had ruptured and hundreds of people tried to take advantage of the accident to store fuel. According to police estimates, the death toll could reach ...  about 19 hours ago     Breaking News!!!! Over 100 dead in Kenyan pipeline fire By: jahanzaibdar      12th Sep 2011: 100 people have killed in Kenya due to fire explosion which took place in Nairobi in the the industrial area.The police said that we are trying to recover the bodies of the dead people, we rae waiting for body bags to put the victims into.
The incident happend in the industrial area of Nairobi the capital of Kenya.The fuel pipeline ...  about 20 hours ago     Update: Dozens Killed and 100 Hurt After Pipeline Explosion In Kenya's ... By: shiri      A leaking gasoline was the cause of pipeline explosion in Kenya's capital Monday. It was reported that 61 people were killed and more than 100 person hurt. Injured person are brought to Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, Kenya. A local official says at least 61 bodies have been recovered after an explosion of a gasoline pipeline running ...  about 20 hours ago     Kenya: More than 100 people killed in pipeline blaze By: solarp      
More than 100 people have died after a petrol
pipeline explosion and fire in Kenya’s capital Nairobi, BBC reported on Monday.
The explosion is said to happen when an oil
pipeline operated by Kenya Pipeline Co. spilled fuel into a slum in eastern
Nairobi. Flames leapt out from the pipeline in a radius of some 300 yards setting
shacks ...  about 20 hours ago     Devastating fire kills scores in Kenyan capital following pipeline ... By: aniskhan26      A fire has spread through a densely-populated Nairobi slum following a fuel pipeline leak, killing scores of people, Kenyan police have confirmed. According to the BBC, a cigarette butt is believed to have started the blaze, which spread through the informal settlement extremely fast. One resident described the start of the fire saying &...  about 21 hours ago     Oil pipeline explodes in Nairobi, at least 100 dead By: wendyzachary      
Kenyan police officials fear at least 100 deaths in a huge oil pipeline explosion that took place in Nairobi on Monday. Cause of the fire has not been identified thus far.
The pipe was running through a crowded slum in Kenya's capital. Many houses that were built over it are now destroyed.
Police have confirmed that 61 bodies have been ...  about 23 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     'Scores dead' in Kenyan pipeline fire  
Al Jazeera
 28 More than 100 people burned to death in a fire on a fuel pipeline in a shantytown area of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, according to police. The explosion took place in Nairobi's Lunga Lunga industrial area, which is surrounded by the densely...    Dozens Killed in Nairobi Pipeline Explosion  
Voice of America
 Witnesses in Kenya's capital say dozens of people have been killed by a gasoline pipeline explosion. Nairobi police officials say 61 bodies have been recovered so far but they expect the death toll to rise. More than 100 burn victims were taken to...    At least 120 dead in Kenyan pipeline fire  
Leader Post Online
 At least 120 people were burned to death on Monday when a pipeline burst into flames in a Nairobi slum as local people were siphoning fuel from it, and more than 100 hospitalized, officials said. Scores of bodies, some burned to the bone, lay on...    Kenya gasoline explosion kills more than 60 in Nairobi slum  
Los Angeles Times
 At least 116 severely burned people, many of them children, were taken to hospitals. Many were not expected to survive, as medical staff struggled with shortages of blood for transfusions. Witnesses described a scene from hell: charred bodies were...    Kenya pipeline fire 'kills 100'  
BBC
 Nairobi pipeline blaze 'kills 100' More than 100 people have died after a petrol pipeline explosion and fire in Kenya's capital Nairobi, police say. "We estimate the number of dead at more than 100," a police spokesman Thomas Atuti was quoted as...    Kenya pipeline blast kills 53  
The Age
 Reuters At least 53 people died when an oil pipeline operated by Kenya Pipeline Co. spilled fuel into a slum in eastern Nairobi, causing an explosion, police and ambulance officials said. More than 100 people may have died in the blast that occurred...   More Related Stories     Images    >         The charred remains of a ...    The charred remains of a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com The charred remains of a victim is seen at the scene of a fire at a slum in ...        A victim is attended to at the ...    A victim is attended to at the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A victim is attended to at the Kenyatta National Hospital after an ...        The explosion took place in ...    The explosion took place in ... Image Source: www.afp.com The explosion took place in Nairobi's Lunga Lunga industrial area        The explosion took place in ...    The explosion took place in ... Image Source: www.afp.com The explosion took place in Nairobi's Lunga Lunga industrial area        Kenya's President Mwai Kibaki ...    Kenya's President Mwai Kibaki ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Kenya's President Mwai Kibaki arrives at the parliament building in the ...        Victims lay on a bed at the ...    Victims lay on a bed at the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Victims lay on a bed at the Kenyatta National Hospital after an explosion ...      More Related Images    More From Nairobi           photos- In Nairobi, about 100 people die because an oil pipeline explodes        Kenya Pipelines Explode Killing 75 People        Many dead following Kenyan pipeline explosion        At least 120 people were reported dead following the explosion of an oil pipeline in Nairobi          Gunmen Kill British Tourist and Kidnap Wife In Kenya         Neurotoxin-Placed Next to Your Brain        Police have found 92 bodies after pipeline blast        Gender Sensitivity: Investigating Non-Sexual HIV Risks         children dying from diarrhoea       ICROSS HIV programmes        Famine spreads with 750000 at risk of death in Somalia alone       Help ICROSS to save lives in Africa with safe motherhood          NAIROBI: Famine spread to a sixth southern Somali region and will likely extend further in the coming four months, the United Nations said Monday.                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10315262      Related People              Mwai Kibaki         Raila Odinga          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 21       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 30       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10315262), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10315262 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10315262 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10315262-pipeline-explosion-kills-120-people-in-kenya.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         