Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever    London :  United Kingdom
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By Ljubica Vujadinovic            5 0      
Views: 475
        Amy Winehouse ignored warnings that switching frequently between bouts of heavy drinking and short periods of detox could be fatal, her father Mitch revealed in a CNN talk show. Accordingly, the Back To Black singer, who was found dead in her north London home in July, made repeated attempts to quit alcohol but without any medical supervision. "She would drink for two or three weeks and then she would detox for two or three weeks and that is the worst thing that anybody can do," Mitch Winehouse said in a preview of an interview for CNN to be aired in full on Tuesday in the US. “Her doctor very specifically told her about six months ago, and she wrote to her and she wrote a copy to me, that if this behavior continued, the binge drinking and then the detoxing, that could lead to seizures which could ultimately lead to death”, Mitch Winehouse told CNN, adding: "I guess she was like any other 27-year-old who thinks...they are going to live forever, and she chose to ignore the advice because she had just come off the back of a two week very successful detox period." Father of the troubled British soul star also said he blames Blake Fielder-Civil, with whom Amy had a stormy two-year marriage, for introducing her to hard drugs such as heroine and cocaine. “I was sickened and I did everything in my power to stop the relationship. But she loved Blake”, he said, and admitted he can’t listen Amy’s Grammy winning Back to Black album as it was about Blake. Amy’s last recording, a duet with veteran crooner Tony BennettTony Bennett named Body and Soul, is to be released Wednesday September 14th - which would have been her 28th birthday. The profits from the sale of the track will be directed to Amy Winehouse Foundation, initiated by the singer’s family, which is to be launched on the same day.        1 of 32        
British singer Amy Winehouse arrives at the City of Westminster Magistrates Court in central London
         
Ljubica Vujadinovic is based in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Serbia,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (53.6%) Philippines (7.0%) Switzerland (5.0%) United Kingdom (3.3%) 27 other countries (27.6%)           READ MORE: Amy Winehouse, Father, CNN, interview, death, Anderson Cooper, Body and Soul, final recording, Detox, Mitch Winehouse   More News From: London :  United Kingdom      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 2            Reply  Posted By     George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
It is tragic that many entertainers believe they are Invicible Iron Women and do not realize that taking drugs and alcohol take tolls on their bodies.
            Reply  Posted By     jinkinpark
|
34 minutes
ago
  
great report. rated up.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Amy Winehouse's father thinks she was attacked by seizure By: dewegy      When she died July 23 at the age of 27, Amy Winehouse was clean of all drugs. But her father Mitch, said she suffered an attack due to alcohol detoxification.In interview with Anderson Cooper he said: "All things Amy did, she made ​​them in excess. She drank to excess and was detoxified to excess."He shared the opinion of the doctor and says, "...  1 day ago     Amy Winehouse's father said she died of drug treatment entry By: kensai      
Press Association - Amy Winehouse's father said he believes died after suffering a scene of detoxification from alcohol, and "there was no one to save him."
 
The soul diva, who had battled drug and alcohol problems for years, was found dead in bed at his home in London, July 23.
 
His family said that toxicology reports indicated ...  2 days ago     Amy Winehouse had 'prescribed drug' in system when she died By: YawarNaqvi      The father of singer Amy Winehouse said that his daughter had the prescription
medication Librium in her system when she died of a seizure in July,
according to media reports.
At a recording for the new American talk show, Anderson, hosted by the
CNN journalist Anderson Cooper, Mitch Winehouse repeated past statements
that his daughter ...  2 days ago     Winehouse's dad suspects late singer died of seizure from alcohol ... By: aniskhan26      Amy Winehouse's father has claimed that the late singer died of seizure from alcohol detoxification.Mitch
Winehouse, who believes seizure related to alcohol detoxification
killed his daughter, also said "there was nobody there to rescue her"."Everything Amy did, she did to excess," the New York Daily News quoted him as saying."She drank to ...  3 days ago     Mitch Winehouse says Amy died of a seizure, starts singing career! By: AmberCornelio      Amy Winehouse's father may have just identified the cause of his daughter’s death, amid all other speculation which has been circulating on the Internet in the past couple of months.
Mitch Winehouse says he’s quite certain that the cause of his daughter Amy’s death was a seizure that she may have suffered related to the alcohol ...  3 days ago     Amy Winehouse, no drugs by autopsy By: mus1423      
Amy Winehouse is not 'died of drugs: in his body there is no' trace of illegal substances, only alcohol. And 'This is the result of toxicology tests conducted on the body of Back to Black singer died a month ago at his home in Camden to London in just 27 years. Today marks one month since the death of Amy, and while his portrait, by ...  20 days ago     No drugs in body Winehouse By: BURHANAALI      
Amy Winehouse was at the time of her death, no illegal drugs in her body. Toxicological research has shown that, let the spokesman for the survivors of last month at the age of 27 deceased singer out Tuesday.
There is alcohol detected, but whether the singer has become fatal, it is still unclear. What has become fatal Winehouse must ...  20 days ago     Amy Winehouse's Toxicology Results Negative On Illegal Drugs By: ljvujadinovic      
Toxicology results have confirmed that there were no
illegal substances in Amy's system at the time of her death, the Winehouse
family stated Tuesday.
The troubled soul-singer was found dead at her Camden home on July 23, and a post-mortem
examination took place two days later.
''Results indicate that alcohol was present but it ...  20 days ago     Winehouse's father returns donations By: zeeShan446      Recently deceased singer Amy Winehouse's father, Mitch Winehouse, forced to return the donations received by the fund he established for his daughter's memory. The reason is that organization's name "Amy Winehouse foundation" is already taken, writes The Guardian  21 days ago     Name registration delays Amy Winehouse foundation By: mjunaid38      Amy Winehouse's father Mitch has said his plans to launch a foundation in his daughter's name have been delayed.
Amy Winehouse's home in Camden, North London is set to be converted into the headquarters for the rehabilitation foundation that is being set up in her memory. 
According to T  25 days ago     Amy's new songs have been stolen  By: karasiwo      Father of singer said that other objects are missing from the residence of the star
,People close to Amy Winehouse may have stolen lyrics from the singer's home after her death on July 23.
According
to British newspaper "The Sun", the complaint was made by the star's
father, Mitch Winehouse, who also stated that other objects such as the
...  about 1 month ago     Stolen in the home of Amy Winehouse By: Ranasafdaralikhan      Amy Winehouse's father has denounced the disappearance of his daughter's belongings in the house where she lived, as published que.es Objects missing in the home of the singer are a few guitars, some books where Amy wrote her songs. Winehouse's
family opened
an investigation to recover the belongings of his daughter and punish those responsible ...  about 1 month ago     Fears for Amy Winehouse's boyfriend Reg Traviss  By: junaid800      
Friends have expressed concerns that Amy Winehouse's boyfriend Reg Traviss is not coping with the singer's death.
The film director, who reportedly wanted to marry the Back to Black songstress, is struggling to deal with his grief and friends say they think he will never truly get over his lost love.
Reg Traviss was left devastated by ...  about 1 month ago     Winehouse's Father Thrilled About Bennett Charity Track By: luvanil      
Amy
Winehouse's father Mitch is pleased his daughter's duo with Tony Bennett will
benefit a charity in her memory - because the late star was "so
excited" about the teamwork.
Bennett was left shocked by Winehouse's death last
month (Jul11) after working with her on a track, Body And Soul, for his
upcoming record Duets II in March (11).
...  about 1 month ago     Kelly Osbourne Takes Amy Winehouse's Death Very Hard (Amy Winehouse's ... By: ken_nic2009      
The 27-year-old Grammy winner Amy Winehouse's struggle to quit drugs were well documented. Her family thought though that her sudden withdrawal from alcohol, which gave her body such a fright since she ignored her doctor's advice to step back gradually from her heavy drinking, caused her death. In short, she went cold ...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest    Franklin and Marshall Shirt Men | jamelucy on Xanga  Submitted By: jamelucy
| about 8 hours ago
  Franklin and Marshall Shirt Men Short T-Shirt is most poplar style among the males in the world. It is the round neck. The white words " Marshall" crock print on the front. Franklin & Marshall Men t-shirt are designed in a natural, ...    Amy Winehouse's parents thought they 'were out of the woods' before her ...  
New York Post
 September 12, 2011 Amy Winehouse's parents broke their silence Monday, remembering the late English soul singer and revealing their absolute shock at her death, on the premiere of Anderson Cooper's syndicated show "Anderson." "Four years ago, she was...    Amy Winehouse likely to have died of seizure, says dad  
Daily News & Analysis
 The father of British singer Amy Winehouse said he believed his daughter died of a seizure brought on by ending years of binge drinking. In his first major TV interview since the death of Winehouse, Mitch Winehouse told US journalist Anderson Cooper...    Mitch Winehouse warned Blake he was 'killing' Amy  
ExpoSay
 Amy Winehouse's dad warned Blake Fielder Civil he was "killing" her with drugs...In an interview on CNN show 'Piers Morgan Tonight' he said: "I was sickened and I did everything in my power to stop the relationship...After finding out about the...    Amy Winehouse Final Recording Out Wednesday [VIDEO]  
International Business Times
 Winehouse recorded "Body and Soul'" for Bennett's Duets II album in March, at the famous Abbey Road Studios in London . Bennett had approached Winehouse backstage at a charity gig in New York after being blown away by her voice.  According to...    Amy Winehouse duet to be released posthumously on Wednesday  
Daily News & Analysis
 British singer Amy Winehouse's final recording before her death in July, a duet with veteran crooner Tony Bennett, will be released on what would have been her 28th birthday on Wednesday. The track and video of 'Body and Soul' were recorded at Abbey...   More Related Stories     Images    >         British singer Amy Winehouse ...    British singer Amy Winehouse ... Image Source: www.reuters.com British singer Amy Winehouse arrives at the City of Westminster Magistrates ...        Amy Winehouse has been found ...    Amy Winehouse has been found ... Image Source: www.afp.com Amy Winehouse has been found dead        The late British singer Amy ...    The late British singer Amy ... Image Source: www.afp.com The late British singer Amy Winehouse        Amy Winehouse spent years ...    Amy Winehouse spent years ... Image Source: www.afp.com Amy Winehouse spent years battling addictions to alcohol and drugs        File photo of British singer ...    File photo of British singer ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo of British singer Amy Winehouse performing at the St. Lucia Jazz ...        File photo of British singer ...    File photo of British singer ... Image Source: www.reuters.com File photo of British singer Amy Winehouse performing at the St. Lucia Jazz ...      More Related Images    More From London          Sterling Silver Jewellery Rings UK | Sterling Silver Rings for Women & Men        STOP THE UK GOVERNMENT CLUBBING PUPPIES AND KITTENS TO DEATH        The Rugby World Cup        25/7/2004 - DESTRUCTION OF ILLEGAL GUNS.          Ballack endorses Villas Boas       Britain's Arab Spring - Create a true Deomocracy        TV Show reveals positive control cocaine Gary O'Connor        Meteorites delivered the gold to Earth           "For all have great respect for Chelsea Ballack"         Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Leonardo DiCaprio Ex-Girlfriend Bar Refaeli with Another Guy        Sarah Jessica Parker says would seem ‘greedy’ to ask for more kids          This is the year's best astronomy pictures                    Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10318397          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 21       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 32       Comments: 2    2       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10318397), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10318397 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10318397 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10318397-mitch-winehouse-amy-thought-she-would-live-forever.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         