RCR Unplugged - powered by FeedBurner
&



RCR Unplugged

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get RCR Unplugged delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Fujitsu and Follie Follie get fragrance friendly


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 23:34:24 +0000
Are you satisfied with how your phone smells?
Yes we thought so, but get a whiff of this……….
In an attempt to freshen up the conversations of Asian women, Fujitsu along with Follie Follie, a women’s accessories company in China, has come to the rescue this summer with a phone that will get your tongues wagging and noses twitching.

With a shiny, glittery cover the F-022 has been designed and marketed to appeal to ladies who have perfume patter paranoia.
Yes, it has an 8.1 megapixel camera and is even water resistant, but the phone’s main feature is a removable disc that can be sprayed with your scent of choice, making your phone smell like, well you. Speaking of which, what would be the point? I mean who wants to smell exactly like their phone?
Then again, if your conversation skills stink, you might want to pick up one of the perfumed wonders.
Actually we are not exactly sure how this would work. Will perfume shopping for these handset owners now mean buying a perfume for yourself and then a different one for your phone? How will you know what perfume your phone wants? Perhaps there is potential for a new application where the phone can state its preference.
There’s also bound to be that awkward moment when people start commenting on ‘your lovely perfume’ which will leave you having to explain, ‘well actually it’s not mine, my phone chose that one this morning, gosh it has expensive taste, but what can I do?’
The upside? When your perfumed pal goes missing (say, it has fallen between the cracks in the sofa) and conveniently has no battery, you will be able to sniff it out pretty fast.  Now, if only they thought of doing this for keys.
 
Related ArticlesMay 20, 2010 -- Samsung’s newest projector phone, the BeamJuly 27, 2011 -- Motorola has an LTE problemJuly 26, 2011 -- Zynga looking to cut the Facebook cordJune 28, 2011 -- Google now activating 500,000 Android devices per day
     




Apple arts and crafts with RCR


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 17:16:10 +0000
Have you got an apple tree in your garden?
Because today we bring you RCR’s very own decorate-your-apple-like-a-geek arts and crafts cleverness.
So, to add some craft to your crunch follow the steps below:
Step one:  Find an apple tree, preferably yours. If you do not own an apple tree you can still participate, just find a neighbour’s apple tree, wait till they are out and then proceed to step two.
Step two: Take some stickers of the Apple Inc. logo.
Step tree: Grab a ladder and a trusted friend to hold it still. If you don’t have a friend then ask your neighbour, provided you are not using their tree. Carefully place the stickers on the apples.

Tip: for best results, make sure you place the stickers on the apples whilst they are still on the tree and whilst they are young.
Step four: wait for around a month, then remove the stickers and invite your friends over to gawk at your geeky creation. The deprivation of sunlight to the logo covered portion will cause the apple to maintain the stickers design.
It’s a great conversation starter for those of us who are conversationally challenged. “Do you fancy one of my fancy apples?”  “Well, fancy that, can I take a picture? I want to post it on Facebook, what beautiful apples you have”
While you wait for your own fruit to get fancy, here is one we made earlier, or rather, a geeky owner of a Fuji apple orchard did.

As if that wasn’t weird enough, this Apple fan took it one fruity step further, by also using iPod stickers for some variation.
Individual results may vary.
RCR accepts no liability for any loss in taste or texture of the apple or for any law suits that may arise between you, your neighbours or Apple.
 
Related ArticlesAugust 29, 2011 -- Does Android have an image problem?August 26, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Honey-apple badgerAugust 25, 2011 -- Why Steve Jobs mattersAugust 22, 2011 -- Judge sides with music lockers in record label dispute
     




Marvell announces single-chip LTE world modem for the masses


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 17:24:54 +0000
Underdog chipmaker Marvell has just unveiled a new single-chip LTE world modem called the PXA1801.
Unsurprisingly, the chip is described as high-performance, low-power and Internet-connected, ticking all the right boxes for use in smartphones, tablets, laptops, set-top-boxes and TVs.
For those who want the alphabet soup specs, Marvell is touting its new chip as a “true Mobile Multi-RAT design combining 3GPP R9 Cat 4 FDD-LTE (Frequency Division Duplexing Long Term Evolution) and TDD-LTE (Time Division Duplexing Long Term Evolution).”
It also apparently includes R8 DC-HSPA+ (Dual Carrier Evolved High-Speed Packet Access) for both WB-CDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access) and TD-SCDMA (Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access) standards as well as ye old EDGE.
Marvell’s value add has always been, and remains, price point, with the firm’s offerings usually cheap as, er, chips.
The company’s Co-Founder, Weili Dai has described the world modem as a “game-changing breakthrough,” especially for the Chinese market. Dai also said the new offering showed how Marvell was “leading the way” when it comes to global connectivity “for the masses” – of which China has rather a lot.
Of course, Marvell is a little late to the game here, with rival Qualcomm already pipping the chipmaker to the post with its Gobi chip. Also, it’s unclear just how Marvell can call its product a “world modem” if it doesn’t yet support CDMA.
Still, a cheap single chip 2G/3G/4G modem is a step in the right direction.
 
Related ArticlesJuly 18, 2011 -- A beginning guide on how to define 4GJanuary 5, 2011 -- @ CES: Is mobile broadband a myth?September 26, 2010 -- TeliaSonera and Telenor take differing approaches to LTEJune 14, 2011 -- RCR Wireless News MBB Philadelphia: Speed test showdown in the city of brotherly love
     




Worst of the Week: Four days of fog and shame


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 16:27:57 +0000
Hello! And welcome to our Friday column, Worst of the Week. There’s a lot of nutty stuff that goes on in this industry, so this column is a chance for us at RCRWireless.com to rant and rave about whatever rubs us the wrong way. We hope you enjoy it!
And without further ado:
Wait, is it Friday? What the hell? What happened to Wednesday?
Not sure if I am like the rest of you, but short work weeks are somehow the most awesome and most frustrating things ever invented by the Dalai Lama. As such I both love and hate these four-day work weeks with a passion I usually reserve only for breakfast.
I think the awesomeness of a four-day work week is pretty self-explanatory, so won’t go into those details. However, the frustrating-ness of it is hitting hard as for the life of me I can’t remember anything that has happened over the past four days. 
Did someone try to buy someone?
Did some government agency declare something was wrong with something?
Was a new smartphone – or 20 – launched?
Did someone lose something?

B. L. A. N. K.
One thing that sort of rings a bell is that someone – Motorola, maybe Samsung? – launched a new LTE device with Verizon Wireless. Six-million-dollar-man-something or other? What sort of name is that?

I am sure whatever it is (was) that it’s a lovely device with lots of great features that will somehow not get lost in the pack. Or maybe it will. I really am in a bit of a fog.
Regardless, this brings up the pertinent fact that no one should ever launch or unveil something they want people to remember during a four-day work week. That’s like trying to propose to your girlfriend during a Justin Beiber concert. 

Now, for those that are looking to make less of an impression – you know those companies that are trying to hide some interesting information that they legally need to disclose, but really don’t want anyone to know about it – well then four-day work weeks are tailor-made for such subterfuge. They are like having four Friday afternoons all in a row. 

Have an executive that crashed the corporate jet into a hotel pool trying to impress his friends?  
Have a few billion dollars that need to be written off because your idea for a glow-in-the-dark handset antenna did not pan out as you had hoped?
A company party got out of hand and the head of HR managed to lose the company’s 401K program in a cock fight?
These are what four-day work weeks were made for. 
Looking to show off your latest and greatest mobile device widget that is the key to whether your company makes it until next week?
Not so much.
So for those companies out there that managed to waste a perfectly good four-day work week and not air out all that dirty laundry, shame on you. These things are precious and should not be wasted.
And for those companies that for some reason thought this was a good week to announce or launch a new product that needed to succeed or your kids would mutiny, shame on you as well. 
OK, enough of that.
Thanks for checking out this week’s Worst of the Week column. And now for some extras:
–Speaking of trying to get attention for yet another new mobile device, I think the folks at Sonim are onto something here.


Sure, their devices are not the sexiest, but I think we can all relate more to having a phone drop out of our pants while suspended 100 feet in the air or accidently dropping our precious mobile device in an industrial blender then hitting “puree” more than the need to have quicker access to social networking services or the need for the latest Android operating system. 
–And finally I would be remiss if I did not offer my greatest thanks and good luck to RCR Wireless News’ backbone and soul Tracy Ford, who is on her final day here before joining the fine folks at PCIA. For some reason Tracy hired me as an editorial assistant in the previous century and put me on my path to wherever it is I am today. (So you can blame her for the mess that has been my reporting/writing over the past 12 years.) 
I welcome your comments. Please send me an e-mail at: dmeyer@rcrwireless.com.
Bored? Why not follow me on Twitter.
Related ArticlesSeptember 2, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: DoJ and the Flying CircusAugust 26, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Honey-apple badgerAugust 19, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Crazy from the heatAugust 12, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Bumpy ride through the cloud
     




RedHat calls the cloud a goat rodeo


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 04:54:01 +0000
The cloud has been called many things by marketeers in its amorphous lifespan, but “goat rodeo” was probably a first on Thursday, as RedHat’s VP of biz dev Mike Evans fumbled for the right words to describe the nebulous buzz.
Sitting on a panel of executives at Intel’s Software day in San Francisco Thursday, Evans said the confusing chaos of companies all trying to jump on the cloud bandwagon reminded him of competitive cattle.
He also described Linux as “cool and hip,” while coining the phrase “hip with the cloud.”
“Cloud needs some sense of sanity and compatibility,” he said, deploring the all-in, me-too attitude companies were taking towards the space.
RedHat seems to want to offer some of that sanity and sense of cool, with Evans adding his firm was both “modern,” and “fleet of foot.”
“We have huge appeal,” he boasted, explaining “Our view is open, and open is the winning hand, it’s a beautiful thing.”
It is indeed. In fact, we’re getting a little teary eyed at the thought. Kumbaya … and quit hogging the bong, Evans.
 
Most Commented ArticlesMay 3, 2011 -- Hot Rumor: Apple iPad 3 to be fully 3DDecember 16, 2010 -- LG Optimus 2X announced, likely coming to US in March on T-MobileMay 16, 2011 -- Europe decides dark ages were safer for children – plans to ban school Wi-FiAugust 7, 2010 -- China creates case to turn iPod touch into iPhone
     




Intel hungry to hire software developers


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 03:39:47 +0000
Speaking at Intel’s Software Day in San Francisco on Thursday, Doug Fisher, corporate VP and GM of the software and services group’s software division said Intel was putting a key emphasis on pulling in application developer talent to help drive Intel architecture forward.
“Intel is not new to software,” said Fisher noting that most people were very familiar with many of the tools Intel provides the marketplace both in terms of open source and proprietary software offerings.
“Going forward we continue to invest,” he said adding that it was “critical to the success of our platform,” and that users wanted “much more compelling experiences,” in terms of media and graphics on all their digital devices.
Intel, said Fisher, was committed to delivering “compelling solutions to the end user,” and would continue to make critical acquisitions – like WindRiver and OpenHand – to up the ante.
Security, said Fisher, was “absolutely foundational,” going forward, and one of the key reasons Intel bought Macafee. The firm says it is committed to delivering secure platforms through both hardware and software optimizations and would continue to invest in security with more  acquisitions centered around security software.
The main value add for Intel software, said Fisher, was that the chip giant’s architecture remains consistent across all devices from servers to handheld devices, something the GM said was “very, very valuable” to software developers. The fact that the company also continues to bill itself as a port of choice is also important, Fisher pointed out, as Intel collaborates with so many different companies.
The company says it’s still making strides in terms of power management – optimizing power and performance through software – and beefing up its software marketplace for developers
“Intel is very well known as a hardware company, so how do we bring in innovative software people?” Fisher asked, answering that the solution lay in developing a culture around being a software person. “We’re really working as a company to develop a desire in software developers to join our company,” he said, revealing Intel’s software recruitment quest.
“We’re moving aggressively to bring in the software capabilities and talent to push our platforms forward in the market,” he explained.
Fisher said Intel was still fully committed to Meego, and that the firm was also “very open to other companies participating and shaping the next generation of the open platform,” as well as also being “very deeply engaged in open platforms.”
The executive would not be drawn into commenting on whether Samsung might be that “other company,” but speculation remains rife.
 
Related ArticlesMarch 3, 2011 -- Want a MeeGo tablet? Go to Intel’s session at GDCAugust 23, 2010 -- Intel McAfee – A mobile perspectiveJune 21, 2011 -- Nokia announces MeeGo-powered N9, asks for one more chanceMay 30, 2011 -- Computex 2011: Qualcomm confuses journalists with MeeGo logo
     




Texas Instruments doesn’t want its new low-power chips to interfere


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 17:36:57 +0000
Texas Instruments Inc., has unveiled its latest sub-1 GHz RF performance line of chips which it hopes will find wide application within the “Internet of Things,” – in anything from smartphones to smart grids.
The firm says its new offerings – the CC1120 and CC1121 transceivers and CC1175 transmitter – run a much lower risk of interfering with surrounding RF systems, something that has proved particularly problematic in the industry to date.
Despite their 10 km range, TI says its new RF chips can be more than 30 times closer in proximity to other RF systems without causing interference, something which will allow many more chips to function in the same area safely and seamlessly.
The chips are also ultra-low powered, with connectivity and security features baked in, in order to make them a more obvious choice for industrial uses, the wireless healthcare space, as well as home and building automation.
The low power also means a longer battery life, something sure to please both developers and consumers alike.
 
Related ArticlesJune 24, 2011 -- Marvell loses its BlackBerry contractMay 3, 2011 -- Qualcomm shows off its 1.5GHz beast of a processor in new video June 1, 2011 -- Hot rumor: Intel interested in buying Texas Instruments’ OMAP unit?May 29, 2011 -- Computex 2011: MasterImage 3D launches dev board based on TI’s OMAP 4
     




Samsung Mobile asks you to defriend contacts on Facebook for a Tab


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 17:13:49 +0000
Tablets may be the new chic, but Samsung USA’s latest marketing ploy leaves a bad taste, after the firm took a page out of Burger King’s book and ran an ad to win a new Galaxy Tab by unfriending contacts on Facebook.
When Burger King ran its campaign to “defriend” 10 Facebook contacts for a free Whopper, the Internet’s cup raneth over with scorn and disgust. Not only was it found distasteful, but cyber bullying groups quickly went on record to discuss the hurt that could be caused when people received notifications informing them that they had been “sacrificed” for a burger.
Samsung, however,  seems to find insulting one’s friends funny, especially in the name of marketing and materialistic gain. After all, in a world where friendships have become as shallow as a poke on someone’s wall, why not hurt people’s feelings just because Samsung’s marketing team tells you to? Go ahead, unfriend. If you’re that kind of person, you probably don’t deserve to have any friends anyway.

 
Related ArticlesSeptember 17, 2010 -- Samsung unveils ‘Tab’ the tabletSeptember 1, 2010 -- Samsung Galaxy Tab coming to VerizonSeptember 2, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: DoJ and the Flying CircusAugust 22, 2011 -- Skype buys GroupMe messaging service for $85 million
     




Handy iPhone case: Lend me your ears and I’ll give you my hand


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 16:38:34 +0000
Ever heard the rather pessimistic phrase “the best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm?”
Well, challenging that notion is Dokkiri, a Japanese company, attempting to place that helping hand in your pocket, stuck to the back of your iPhone.
For all the times your phone has slid, jumped or wriggled out of your own hand whilst talking, Dokkri has the solution: an iPhone case with an eerily real looking silicon hand attached to its back. The case comes with the guarantee that you will never drop your phone in the bath again.

It is creepy and it’s Kooky, even mysterious and Spooky, but getting up close and even more personal with our iPhones might just be altogether handy, don’t you think?
If you are a man and have issues holding another man’s hand, do not despair, the accommodating attachment comes in a female version too.

There is also a kid’s version for adults who have very small hands and all those 10 year olds who got an iPhone for Christmas.

As of yet, there is no male version. As female hands are generally much better kept than male hands, we can understand this decision as a clever marketing ploy. Also, the thought of any man supporting a conversation for more than two minutes is improbable.
In reality, we are not sure how many of these $65 third limbs will sell. Whilst we are constantly trying to downsize everything to fit in to our pockets and bags, having a body part sized addition to our phone makes the battle to be compact that little bit more challenging. Then there is the obvious downside of having fingers poking out of our bags, briefcases and top pockets.
We would rather drop the extra appendage and put faith in our own hands to do the job, but not a bad idea, for comedy value at least, you gotta hand it to them.
 
Related ArticlesAugust 7, 2010 -- China creates case to turn iPod touch into iPhoneAugust 26, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Honey-apple badgerAugust 25, 2011 -- Women buying 50% of smartphones, 61% of eReadersAugust 25, 2011 -- Why Steve Jobs matters
     




Worst of the Week: DoJ and the Flying Circus


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 16:22:26 +0000
Hello! And welcome to our Friday column, Worst of the Week. There’s a lot of nutty stuff that goes on in this industry, so this column is a chance for us at RCRWireless.com to rant and rave about whatever rubs us the wrong way. We hope you enjoy it!
And without further ado:
So, word on the street is that AT&T is looking to buy T-Mobile USA so it can either acquire sufficient spectrum assets to remain operational and save T-Mobile USA from imploding or it wants to remove a robust and viable competitor from the market, torture puppies and burn the Constitution. 

Ever since AT&T announced its bold attempt to acquire T-Mobile USA, which it must be said was boldly announced just days before the CTIA trade show earlier this year, just about any organization with an e-mail address and acronym has seen fit to spew its 2-cents worth on how the deal will either initiate the fall of civilization or be a significant step towards time travel. 
And following the Department of Justice decision this week that it would file a lawsuit to block the deal, those opinions again came flooding in. (But, how awesome is that name: Department of Justice. It’s just so bad-ass and I just know they have some capped crusaders working there.)

Here is a quick sample of some of the headlines of those e-mails I received this week. (It should be noted that all of these headlines were in 72-point type, with some sporting what appeared to be dripping blood from the letters.):
–“Rural Telecommunications Group Applauds DOJ Action to Block AT&T/T-Mobile Merger”
(Why would you capitalize all of the first letters in this, but leave out “to?” It just seems wrong, and maybe a little racist. Also, not sure if I would call AT&T forking over $39 billion for T-Mobile a “merger” so much as a “swallowing.”)
–“CWA: DOJ Lawsuit to Block AT&T/T-Mobile Merger is Wrong Decision for Jobs, Workers’ Rights, Broadband Build”
(Again, what’s with the capitalizing/non-capitalizing of certain letters here? I know there is some sort of style rule about this, but when trying to make a point, why not capitalize everything. Heck, why not throw in some frowny or smiley faces as well. Nothing gets a point across like an emoticon. ‘;>^@()
–“MANA-A National Latina Organization:  DOJ’s Attempt to Block AT&T/T-Mobile Merger Jeopardizes Efforts to Bridge Nation’s Digital Divide”
(No idea what this organization is or what they represent, but I do love that name.)

–“DoJ Should Be More Worried About Fighting Lex Luthor Than Sticking Its Nose In A Deal That Would See The Nation’s Second Largest Wireless Operator Acquire The Nation’s Fourth Largest Wireless Operator Leaving But Two Powerful Wireless Organizations To Rule The Wireless World”
(Alright, so I made this last one up. But, at least I used capital letters for all the words, and doesn’t that just seem fairer?) 

And the beauty of all of this is that in some way, and looking at the issue from a certain angle, all of these arguments are valid. Of course, all of these organizations have their constituents to look after and thus are not willing to actually look at this deal from any other angle then their own. Which is sad, but also makes for great headlines, which is great.
I think if everyone could set aside those biases, which I know in the real world is impossible, we could see that if AT&T were to purchase T-Mobile USA the world would not end and could provide AT&T with the assets to bolster its service offering. I think we could also see that the deal is probably not the best idea for competition.

But, getting back to the issue at hand, which I think is either the DoJ looking to block this deal or the DoJ looking to capture Lex Luthor. The decision by the DoJ is obviously a setback for AT&T, which at least on the face of it thought this deal would be approved if not with at least a minimum of conditions. Now it appears that the minimum could be more substantial than expected.
Reports are already indicating that AT&T is set to both fight the blocking as well as come to the table with a new proposal that would satisfy the DoJ. Plus, with the breakup fee it would owe T-Mobile USA should the deal completely fall through, AT&T will likely go to the ends of the earth to make sure this deal gets done.
Will everyone be happy in the end? No. But isn’t that what life is really all about?

OK, enough of that.
Thanks for checking out this week’s Worst of the Week column. And now for some extras:
–As an addendum to the above diatribe, I have to say that no matter what happens in this AT&T/T-Mobile USA/DoJ/Lex Luthor situation, we are all really to blame. All of these wireless carriers would not be going bat-poop crazy trying to buy each other if we all weren’t so busy streaming music/movies/Angry Birds to our mobile phones and instead used them for what they were initially designed: talking. 
So, the next time you punch up some application on your smartphone instead of just calling your mom to say “hi,” you are the real reason why puppies are being tortured and Lex Luthor remains on the loose.
–Good to see Samsung is being very diligent in providing devices with screen sizes covering just about every “inch” requirement humans can possibly have. Oh, wait. I see they don’t have a 6.384-inch screen device. What the hell Samsung!?! Are you guys getting lazy!?!
I welcome your comments. Please send me an e-mail at: dmeyer@rcrwireless.com.
Bored? Why not follow me on Twitter.
Related ArticlesAugust 12, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Bumpy ride through the cloudSeptember 9, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Four days of fog and shameAugust 26, 2011 -- Worst of the Week: Honey-apple badgerAugust 15, 2011 -- Are carriers threatened by Google/Motorola tie up?
     






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


