Stoneleigh on Spring Creek - powered by FeedBurner
&



Stoneleigh on Spring Creek

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Stoneleigh on Spring Creek delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire


Posted: 2011-09-08 13:05:57 UTC
Lend a helping hand to Central Texas wildfire victims by supporting one of these organizations.
Texans can agree that this has been an especially rough summer. Regular dosages of triple digit temperatures have made outdoor activities nearly unbearable, and the drought has caused worlds of trouble for farmers and ranchers across the state. Unfortunately, these two weather phenomena have collided and caused one of the biggest wildfires in recent memory. Even though the wildfires have destroyed many homes across Central Texas, people across the nation are poised to lend a helping hand.
Here are a few ways that you and your family can help the victims of the recent wildfires:

The American Red Cross of Central Texas has been actively assisting families that were displaced due to the wildfires. Currently, the organization is taking donations to help them further accommodate victims of the wildfire. To donate directly to the American Red Cross of Central Texas, visit their website at http://www.centex.redcross.org/ or donate over the phone at 512-928-4271.
United Way Capital Area is running a hotline that directs families to the nearest shelter and details evacuation routes around Central Texas. The organization is also seeking volunteers and donations from the general public. For more information on the organization, visit them online at http://www.unitedwaycapitalarea.org/.
Central Texas Wildfire Fund is a nonprofit donations drive for communities affected by the wildfire. The fund was created by The American-Statesman and Austin Telco Federal Credit Union. To donate online, visit www.austincommunityfoundation.org.
Cub Scout and Boys Scout Troops across the state have been running donation drives for routine items for victims of the wildfire. Items such as clothes, personal hygiene supplies and food can be donated to your nearest Troop. Follow this link for more information on how to help, http://www.bsacac.org/.

Supporting the organizations listed above is an easy way to give back to your fellow Texans in need. The wildfire is nearly contained, but the effects of the fires will be felt for years to come. Give some immediate comfort to victims of the wildfire by helping these organizations provide them with the necessary shelter and supplies to be comfortable until the fires are squelched.

     






Ways to Live Green at Stoneleigh


Posted: 2011-09-05 18:04:27 UTC
Photo courtesy of Flickr
In the past decade there has been a resurgence of environmental responsibility. Families, businesses and governments around the world have grasped onto the concept of ‘Going Green’, which is an initiative to create a culture of environmental responsibility. Many people shy away from ‘Going Green’ because they feel that it will interfere in their everyday activities. These folks should not fear because there are plenty of easy ways to ‘Go Green’ without having to radically change your life.
Here are some simple ways to live green at your apartment in Stoneleigh on Spring Creek:

Electrical appliances around the house will consume energy even if they are turned off. On standby, these appliance can consume up to 1,000 kilowatt hours of electricity annually. Reduce your carbon footprint by unplugging these appliances when they are not in use.
Swap out your incandescent light bulbs for compact fluorescent light bulbs. Fluorescent light bulbs use half the energy as incandescent light bulbs, and they last up to ten times longer.
Keep an eye on your thermostat in the middle of winter and summer. Turn the thermostat up by two degrees in the winter, and down by two degrees in the summer, to cut down on the amount of carbon dioxide used in your apartment.
Recycle your old cell phones, computers and monitors to protect the groundwater from the deadly chemicals stored in these electrical devices. Many electronics and whole sale stores will have centers to recycle these devices.
Wash your clothes in cold-water to cut down on your energy bill. Cold water washing can save up to 80% on laundry energy.

Green living is simple if you follow tips such as the ones listed above. Taking the time to improve the environment by slightly changing your daily habits will have positive impacts on your daily life and the world as a whole.

     






Learn about Outdoor Recreation at ‘Second Annual Outdoor Festival’


Posted: 2011-09-01 14:00:12 UTC
Stop by Bass Pro Shops on September 10 for the Second Annual Outdoor Festival.
A daily workout routine is crucial for living a long and healthy life. To stay in shape, it is not necessary to workout at a gym. Outdoor recreation is a fun way to get off the couch and burn a few calories built-up over the week. If you are unsure or uncertain about outdoor activities, visit the Second Annual Outdoor Festival for a full day of demonstrations and programs showcasing ways to stay active outdoors.
2nd Annual Outdoor Festival is a free demonstration and education program presented by the City of Garland, Garland Department of Parks & Recreation, Cultural Arts Department and Bass Pro Shops. On September 10, Brass Pro Shops on Lake Ray Hubbard will present this engaging, free program that will educate attendants about the positive aspects of outdoor recreation.
From 11am to 4pm, experts and outdoor enthusiast will lead the free program, which will highlight the life-enhancing benefits of activities such as cycling, hiking, canoeing and camping. Attendants can also expect to participate in hands-on activities that will teach fly casting, archery, paintball, outdoor cooking and crafts. The program is geared towards adults, but there will be a number of fun interactive activities for children as well.
If you have been procrastinating about getting into shape, consider stopping by the Second Annual Outdoor Festival for information on fun ways to get outdoors. The free program should enlighten you on many ways of improving your health while having a good time.

     






See the Next Big Star at the Kirk Herbstreit National Kickoff Classic


Posted: 2011-08-30 12:29:40 UTC
Watch the best high school football programs compete on Labor Day at Kirk Herbstreit's Kickoff Classic.
In high school, football players have few defining moments as special as running onto the field each Friday evening. Theses talented young athletes balance school and hours of practice to prepare for each opponent. Kirk Herbstreit, an ESPN analysis and former collegiate athlete, noticed the hard work of these young athletes and formed the Kirk Herbstreit National Kickoff Classic to showcase the best high school football programs around the nation.
The Kirk Herbstreit National Kickoff Classic annually showcases the best high school football programs in the nation on Labor Day. At the event, eight top notch football teams from around the country will compete in a number of exhibition games. The games will take place at Dallas Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, TX.
During the exhibition games, fans can expect to see intense football action, college prospects, well known athletes and a mob of recruiters. Attendants can also expect to see some local Texas football teams competing, such as Arlington Bowie. Tickets for the game on September 5 can be purchased online for $20 at herbstreitfootballseries.com.
Football fans should come out to this exciting tournament occurring at Cowboys Stadium. Kirk Herbstreit National Kickoff Classic would be a great opportunity to see the best high school football talent from around the country, and even catch a glimpse at some athletes that could possibly play on Sunday night.

     






Plan the Perfect Picnic with these Tips


Posted: 2011-08-25 16:03:43 UTC
 
Plan the perfect picnic in Garland by following these easy tips.
Did you know that Labor Day is right around the corner? With Labor Day rapidly approaching it is time to figure out what to do with your extra day off from work. Specials, events and family activities are occurring all across Dallas, but how about an activity that is more laid back and calming. Hosting a picnic for your family or spouse would be the perfect way to unwind over the holiday weekend. Check out these tips to ensure your picnic occurs without any problems.

Keep your picnic simple. To ensure that your picnic occurs without any problems, make sure to prepare food that can be easily transported. Cold dishes such as sandwiches and salads are simple to transport and stay fresh longer than warm foods. 
Avoid fragile and cumbersome dishes. Food such as ice cream, cakes and pies should be avoided on a picnic. These food items are hard to transport and can cause a mess if not properly stored.
Stick with functional transport units over visually appealing ones. Picnic baskets are creative and cute, but they are unable to keep your food cool during transport. Consider purchasing a cooler or ice box to keep your food fresh until it is time to eat.
Purchase items for the post-meal clean up. Pack trash bags, paper towels, and resealable plastic bags before leaving the house. These items will make cleaning up your area a lot easier.
Take note of the utensils you will need to serve the food. Create a small list of every dish you prepared, and use it to make a check list of every utensil each dish will require. The check list is a useful tool to prevent leaving utensils at home.

If you decide to stay close to home over the Labor Day Weekend, use this list of tips to ensure that you have the perfect picnic. For additional picnicking tips and tricks, visit http://www.bonappetit.com.

     






Prepare for these North Texas Job Fairs


Posted: 2011-08-22 19:41:40 UTC
Get your suit dry cleaned and your shoes shined for these upcoming job fairs. 
America and much of the world’s economies are going through a difficult time. As investors and corporations try to acclimate and pull out of this recession, it has become increasingly harder to find employment. The good news is that two great job fairs are about to come to the Dallas-Fort Worth area. These job fairs will offer hundreds of employment opportunities that could be a perfect fit for those that meet the qualifications. Below is a brief description of each job fair.
Texans Helping Texans Job Fair will be taking place on September 13th at Dallas Cowboys Stadium. The job fair is open to adults of all ages and all experience levels. From 9am to 2pm, candidates of all levels are free to attend the fair that will have employers from various regions of Texas. Admission and parking for the job fair is free, but candidates are asked to pre-register for the event online prior to arrival.
The second job fair will be a little closer to home. The North Dallas Job Fair is scheduled to occur in Plano on Monday, October 17. Due to the job fair being recently announced, there is little information on the employers that will be attending. The cost of the job fair is free as well as the parking. Currently, North Dallas Job Fair is slated to run from 11am to 2pm at the Holiday Inn Express Hotel & Suites Plano East.
If you are having trouble finding a job, visit one of these job fairs head to the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Prior to arriving, make sure to dress for success and prepare to shake a lot of hands. For additional information on upcoming job fairs, visit Employment Guide online.

     






Rock & Roll Extravaganza in Garland Texas


Posted: 2011-08-18 12:23:34 UTC
Plaza Theatre, pictured above, will be the location of the Rock & Roll Extravaganza. 
One of the perks of living in Garland is that you are right outside of the hustle and bustle of Dallas. The single drawback of living outside of the city is that it seems like you have to commute to all of the exciting, new events. Next weekend, Garland residents will have the special opportunity to attend a great concert right down the road. Rock & Roll Extravaganza would be an enjoyable concert experience close to home.
Fans of classic rock would enjoy spending the day at Rock & Roll Extravaganza. At the concert, performers will honor the legends of rock by performing hits from the 50s, 60s and 70s. The featured performer at the show will be C.B. Luce and The Garland Oprey, as well as a number of local artists from around Dallas-Fort Worth. A few of the legendary artists you can expect to hear covered at the concert include Elvis, Jerry Lee, The Beatles, Johnny Cash, The Everly Brothers, Fat Domino and Buddy Holly.
Rock & Roll Extravaganza is scheduled for August 27 at the Plaza Theatre. Doors for the show will open at 7:30pm and tickets are currently on sale for $15. Children younger than 12 years of age can attend the concert for free. Tickets can be purchased online at The Garland Opry’s website or over the phone (972-494-3835).
Save a few bucks next week by attending an exciting concert right down the road from Stoneleigh. Rock & Roll Extravaganza would be a great experience for fans of classic rock as well as people that would like to reminisce about heyday of rock n’ roll.

     






Getaway with Delaney’s Harvest & Grape Stomp


Posted: 2011-08-11 21:40:20 UTC
Join Delaney Vineyards & Winery for a day full of tastings and activities. 
Nowadays it is increasingly difficult to get out of town due to the uncertain economy and the need to save money. Rather than planning on a far getaway, that would probably cost tons of money, consider taking a short trip to Grapevine, Texas for the Harvest & Grape Stomp. Delaney Vineyards’ Harvest & Grape Stomp would be a fun and refreshing trip for the entire family.
On August 13 and August 20, Delaney Vineyards and Winery will hold their annual harvest from 7am to 12pm. At the harvest, visitors will be able to taste a variety of wines, attend demonstrations on wine crafting, grab a meal and event participate in a grape stomp. While couples, friends and families are participating in the various activities, they will learn the history of the vineyard and even meet some of the family members that currently run it. 
Delaney Vineyards and Winery is roughly one-hour from Garland. The activities and grape stomping are free, but the wine tasting will be $1 per glass. The last Harvest & Grape Stomping will take place on August 27. 
Families and couple looking for a trip away from home should consider visiting the Harvest & Grape Stomp at Delaney Vineyards and Winery. The trip would be a great way to get out of town and save money on the cost of a hotel, admission and any other miscellaneous fees.

     






Don’t Forget About ‘Sales Tax Holiday’


Posted: 2011-08-09 21:23:15 UTC
 
Shop on Sales Tax Holiday to save a few bucks this month. 
The rough economic climate has cause families across the nation to buckle down on their spending. School shopping can be detrimental during this new age of safe spending due to the many items and products children require for school. One easy way to save money school shopping is by waiting until Texas’ state-wide Sales Tax Holiday.
Governor Rick Perry and the state legislation passed Sales Tax Holiday to relieve the cost of purchasing school supplies on families and stimulate local economies around the state. From August 19 to August 21, certain school related items will be sold with no sales tax affixed to the ending price. These items can include basic school supplies such as pencils, markers, paper, folders, and crayons as well as clothes, shoes and book bags. 
Even though the three day holiday is tax-free, there will be a few rules. The first rule is that no single item can be worth over $100, including book bags. Secondly, certain items are automatically disqualified from being tax-free and include items such as jewelry, athletic gear, sports gear and shoes worth more than $100. A full list of taxed and tax-free items can be found at Window on State Government. 
If you have not gone school shopping, wait until Sales Tax Holiday from August 19 to August 21. The three days would be a great way to buy all of the necessary school supplies without having to harm your household budget.

     






Splash Out Hunger Food Drive at Hawaiian Falls


Posted: 2011-08-07 22:07:57 UTC
Take a mini Hawaiian vacation while you help the North Texas Food Bank in their effort to splash out hunger in Texas. The tropical oasis waterpark Hawaiian Falls is teaming up North Texas Food Bank for a food drive to raise donations and provide meals to low-income families, senior citizens, unemployed workers, individuals with chronic illnesses or disabilities, homeless families, victims of family violence and others Texans in need.
The Splash Out Hunger Food Drive is going on now and will continue until the waterpark closes after Labor Day on September 5th in an effort to help during the tough summer times when families and children cannot benefit from free and reduced-cost school lunch programs. Get $5.00 a regular Big Kahuna admission ticket to Hawaiian Falls when you Bring a can of food or a non-perishable food item. Every little bit helps, plus you’ll get discounted day of relaxing in a cabana or riding thrilling water roller coasters. Hawaiian Falls is off of Spring Creek Way, less than a mile away from Stoneleigh on Spring Creek Apartments. Head southeast on Naaman Forest Blvd, take the 1st right onto N Garland Ave and turn left onto Spring onto Spring Creek Way.

     






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


