FEMA: Survivors in 11 Texas Counties Can Now Register for State/Federal Disaster Assistance

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






Survivors in 11 Texas Counties Can Now Register for State/Federal Disaster Assistance 

Release Date: September 16, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-009

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- Survivors in five more Texas counties -- Gregg, Grimes, Montgomery, Walker and Waller -- whose homes or businesses were damaged or destroyed in the recent wildfires can now register for federal and state disaster assistance.
The five counties were added Friday to the Sept. 9 major disaster declaration that began with Bastrop County; an amendment on Sept. 14 added Colorado, Houston, Leon, Travis and Williamson counties to the declaration. The amendments follow a review of damage assessments by officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Texas Division of Emergency Management (TDEM).
"Survivors are always our utmost concern -- and that's why we strongly encourage those in all 11 counties to register for federal and state disaster assistance as soon as possible," said Federal Coordinating Officer Kevin L. Hannes. "There's lots of help available, and we want survivors to get the assistance they are eligible for."
Disaster assistance for eligible individuals may include:

Grants to help pay for temporary housing and essential home repairs to make a home habitable
Grants for serious disaster-related expenses not covered by insurance
Low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) for homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private nonprofit organizations to cover losses not fully compensated by insurance. 

Residents in Bastrop, Colorado, Gregg, Grimes, Houston, Leon, Montgomery, Travis, Walker, Waller and Williamson counties can register for assistance online at www.disasterassistance.gov, via smart phone at m.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. Those who use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services should call 1-800-621-3362. Specialists are available by phone from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. seven days a week.
FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.Last Modified: Monday, 19-Sep-2011 10:40:33




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











