Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria    Moscow :  Russia
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            10 0      
Views: 133
       In a tit for tat for the French pressure on the UN to do more to stop the killing machine in Syria, Russia has come out with full support to its ally. The French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had raised observations on the seriousness of the UN Security Council to bring an end to the killing of the innocent citizens of Syria. He wanted the International Community to bring more sanctions against Syria to force President Bashar Al Asaad to quit. European Union has already imposed ban on the import of oil from Syria. Gulf Countries Cooperation (GCC) has also demanded reforms in Syria. Despite the killings of more than 2,600 innocent people, Russia is still standingby its close ally. Russia had already condemned the ban on Syrian oil imports by the EU countries. Russia has already threatened to veto any resolution moved against Syria in the Security Council. The Russian President, Dmitry Medvedev, said recent US and European sanctions on Syria meant "additional pressure now is absolutely not needed in this direction".         1 of 61        
Moscow snubs calls for UN Security Council to take tougher stance on Syria as UN puts new death toll at 2,600 people.
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (43.2%) Pakistan (10.8%) Singapore (8.1%) Portugal (8.1%) 8 other countries (21.6%)           READ MORE: Russia Rejects, More UN Pressure, Syria, Security Council, sanctions, President, in Syria, security, European, Syrian oil import, president bashar, council, pressure   More News From: Moscow :  Russia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     Adebanjos
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Well written article, keep up the good job rated!
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Rated up for your good work.Thanks for sharing.
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Ruby1204.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
An informative, well written report that must be rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well written report..Thanks for sharing news.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Excellent report,keep it up dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Ruby1204,thanks for sharing as usual good report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          NEWS UN Rights Body Names Syria Inquiry Panel, As Russia Resists ... By: aniskhan26      he UN Human Rights Council has appointed three experts who are to examine human rights violations in Syria, as mandated during an August session.The panel includes Yakin Erturk of Turkey, Sergio Pinheiro of Brazil, and Karen Abu Zeid of the United States.The 47-member Geneva forum has asked investigators to establish the facts and circumstances of ...  about 14 hours ago     Russia: no increase pressure on Syria  By: mohamedabdelfattah      
Russia has said that there was
no need for more pressure on Syria
because of abuse of the security with the demonstrations continued for about
six months, while Syria
has warned the West to impose sanctions and threatened an escalation in the
case of the adoption of sanctions.
Russian President Dmitry
Medvedev said  that he did ...  about 14 hours ago     Syria troops raid villages as Russia boosts regime By: afzal_mehmood      BEIRUT (AP) — Syrian troops mounted deadly new raids against dissent
Monday as President Bashar Assad's embattled regime won key support from
longtime ally Russia, which said a U.N. resolution on Syria must not
contain sanctions.
The U.N. said Monday that the death toll has
reached at least 2,600 from the government's violent ...  about 20 hours ago     Assad Adviser Shaaban Says Western Actions Fuel Syria Unrest By: afzal_mehmood      Western sanctions against Syria are
stoking violence in the Middle Eastern country, said Bouthaina Shaaban, President Bashar al-Assad’s political and media
adviser.
“The West should choose the path of peace,” Shaaban told
reporters in Moscow today. “We are making changes aimed at
peace, security and stability. By not ...  about 23 hours ago     Gulf States Condemn Syria 'Killing Machine' By: khattar      According to the human rights observers nearly 3,000 persons have lost their lives in the on going protests against the regime of President Bashar Al Asaad in Syria, during the last six months orso. Besides the killings thousands of innocent Syrians have been put into jails. Hundreds have citizens have left their homes and are languishing in the ...  1 day ago     America seeks to condemn Syria internationally  By: mohamedabdelfattah       
United States plans to accelerate work to obtain international condemnation of the Syrian regime, which Russia rejected outside intervention to prevent the repetition of the scenario-Libi, while Moscow called on the Syrian opposition to play a more positive role in the Syrian crisis.  the U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria ...  3 days ago     the Secretary-General of the Arab League in Damascus to display the ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Arab, Nabil  arrived on Saturday to Damascus carrying an Arab initiative to settle the Syrian crisis amid doubts in the success of the mission in light of the continued clampdown on protesters, the positions and spacing between the regime and the Syrian opposition.  It is scheduled to meet ...  3 days ago     Syrian demonstrators call for international protection By: izabel       
Syrian protesters
called on Friday for international protection from a military crackdown
that has sought to crush nearly six months of nationwide demonstrations
against President Bashar al-Assad's rule.
Activists said three people
were killed across the country as large crowds marched in the cities of
Homs and Deir al-Zor, where the ...  3 days ago     France Condemns Syrian Regime's Crimes By: Ruby1204      It seems that the Syrian regime is least pushed about what the International community is saying. Even today the security troops of Syria killed seven people in the city of Homs.
There has been wide condemnation of the regimes brutal use of force against the innocent and unarmed people of syria. according to rough estimates nearly 2,500 persons ...  5 days ago     Finance Minister: Syria hopes to sell oil to Russia and China By: mohamedabdelfattah       
Syrian Minister of Finance on Wednesday that the Syrian economy will grow by one percent this year and then three to four percent in 2012 despite the turmoil may have a negative impact of the current.  The minister said Mohammed Aljalilati at a meeting of Arab finance ministers that plans to develop the economy, including privatization ...  6 days ago     France: The European Union is working to impose new sanctions on ... By: mohamedabdelfattah      
A spokesman for the French Foreign Ministry on Tuesday said the EU is working
to impose new sanctions on Syria targeted economic entities, after days of the
adoption of a set of punitive measures.
The spokesman Bernard Valero told reporters, "We work with our partners to
impose a seventh set of sanctions targeting economic entities."
...  6 days ago     Russia criticizes EU for Syrian oil import ban By: hkbadal      Russia has criticizes the European Union for its latest move to step up sanctions on Syria by banning imports of its oil.
"The sanctions would lead to nothing good," Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.
Russia also refused to back a resolution supporting an arms embargo or asset freeze.
"We are against one-sided sanctions as it ruins the ...  9 days ago     EU bans imports of Syrian oil By: mohamedabdelfattah       
The European Union on Friday imposed sanctions on oil exports, saying that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad commits genocide against his own people.  An official in the resort of Sopot, Poland, where he met the foreign ministers of EU member states to determine their response to the campaign of al-Assad, which began five months ago, ...  10 days ago     Russia Condemns EU Oil Sanctions on Syria By: khattar      Despite all the condemnation by the International community against the atrocities being committed in Syria, The Bashar Al Asaad still have synpathisers in the shape of Russia.
Yesterday the EU ministers met in Poland and imposed a ban on the import of oil from Syria to force the regime to stop atrocities against the citizens. Just remember that&...  10 days ago     U.S bans Syria's Oil Exports By: muhammadyar      SARGODHA:The United States has called upon the world community  to escalate pressure on Syrian President Bashar Al Assad  by targeting  Syria's oil and gas exports to force him  to leave the office. The US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton talking to reporters in Paris said that this pressure must include strong sanctions ...  10 days ago     23 Killed In Syria As EU Ban On Syrian Oil Imports By: saleh1966      The European Union governments has imposed a ban on the products of three Syrian oil companies which it believes act as financial pillars of Assad's regime.
Oil and oil products account for 95 percent of Syria’s export to the EU,AFP reported.
In Paris, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the world community should escalate pressure ...  10 days ago     Syria Faces Fresh Sanctions Move By: khattar      Its Friday and most importantly its known as "Bloody Friday" in Syria. The simple reason is that after the Friday prayers huge gatherings and protests take place all over the Syria against the regime of the Syrian President Bashar Al Asaad. At the same time the security forces use all brutalities to quell these protests.
According to the rough ...  11 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Russia rejects more UN pressure on Syria  
Al Jazeera English
 06 Russia has rejected Western calls for greater pressure on Syria over its violent crackdown on protests against President Bashar al-Assad, in which the United Nations said 2,600 people have been killed. On Monday, a day after France described the...    Medvedev tells Cameron to go slow on Syria  
NOW Lebanon
 Russian President Dmitry Medvedev told British Prime Minister David Cameron Monday it would be a mistake to put more pressure on Syria's regime for its crackdown on the opposition. Medvedev told reporters after talks with Cameron that the difference...    Kremlin firmly opposes UN sanctions on Syria  
Examiner
 Medvedev, who spoke Monday after talks with British Prime Minister David Cameron, said Russia and Britain continue to disagree on Syria. Russia has opposed a draft U.N. resolution backed by European nations and the U.S. that would impose an arms...    Too late for Syria?  
United Press International
 The secretary-general of the Arab League pressed for Syrian reform in Damascus, though a French official said it's much too late for that. The latest estimates from the United Nations state that around 2,500 people have been killed at the hands of...    Syrian activists call for “day of anger” against Russia  
NOW Lebanon
 Pro-democracy activists in Syria have called for a "day of anger" against Russia on Tuesday to protest Moscow's backing of President Bashar al-Assad, who for more than six months has tried to stifle an anti-regime uprising. "Do not support the...    Russia resists Syria sanctions, U.N. says 2,600 dead  
The Daily Star
 Syrian President counsellor Boutheina Chaabane speaks to the media in Moscow on September 12, 2011, after Chaabane's meeting with Russian government officials. Russia rejected Monday Western calls for greater pressure on Syria over its violent...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Syria Turmoil    Syria Turmoil Image Source: allvoices Moscow snubs calls for UN Security Council to take tougher stance on Syria ...        Syria's President Bashar al-...    Syria's President Bashar al-... Image Source: www.reuters.com Syria's President Bashar al-Assad speaks at his first meeting with the new ...        Bashar al-Assad has ruled ...    Bashar al-Assad has ruled ... Image Source: www.afp.com Bashar al-Assad has ruled Syria since 2000        Syria's President Bashar al-...    Syria's President Bashar al-... Image Source: www.reuters.com Syria's President Bashar al-Assad speaks in Damascus in this still image ...        Syria's President Bashar al-...    Syria's President Bashar al-... Image Source: www.reuters.com Syria's President Bashar al-Assad speaks in Damascus        Syria's President Bashar al-...    Syria's President Bashar al-... Image Source: www.reuters.com Syria's President Bashar al-Assad meets Arab League Chief Nabil Elaraby in ...      More Related Images    More From Moscow          Hooters Pushing Putin for President, Hooters Saluting 9/11 Heroes         U.S. and Romania to sign missile shield deal         Expat Eye Launches Complete St. Petersburg City Guide        Cameron seeks to rebuild trust with Russia          Cameron seeks to rebuild trust with Russia (1 hour ago) Today AFP (1 hour ago) Today British Prime Minister David Cameron. - File Photo MOSCOW: David Cameron will try to thaw frozen ties with Russia Monday when he becomes the first British prime minister to visit the Kremlin since the 2006 London poisoning of a fierce foe of Vladimir Putin.        U.S. Open Tennis Tournament, Carolina uznayyky and Serena Williams reached the quarter-finals        Team Russia - world champion in beach soccer       In II quarter 2011 subscriber base of "VimpelCom" increased by 11% - up to 193 million          UK PM urged to challenge Russia        "Mars 500" astronauts "psychologically exhausted"         Arctic Ocean a new record of thawing       Henpecked husband jumps twice from 5th floor – survives          Can Islamic Humanity trust Russia or China?                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10314862          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 13       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 3       Images: 66       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10314862), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10314862 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10314862 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10314862-russia-rejects-more-un-pressure-on-syria.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         