Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art    Berkeley :  CA :  USA
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By northsunm32            6 0      
Views: 300
       The Museum of Children's Art in Oakland (MOCHA) has decided to cancel an exhibit of art by Palestinian children in the GazaGaza Strip. The Middle East Children's Alliance (MECA), which was partnering with MOCHA to present the exhibit, was informed of the decision by the Museum's board September 8. For several months, MECA and the museum had been working together on the exhibit, which is titled "A Child's View From Gaza."  Apparently there was considerable effort by pro-Israel groups in the San Francisco Bay area to get the museium to reverse the decision to display Palestinian children's'art. Barbara Lubin, the Executive Director of MECA, expressed her dismay that the museum decided to censor this exhibit. She said:"We understand all too well the enormous pressure that the museum came under. But who wins? The museum doesn't win. MECA doesn't win. The people of the Bay Area don't win. Our basic constitutional freedom of speech loses. The children in Gaza lose," "The only winners here are those who spend millions of dollars censoring any criticism of Israel and silencing the voices of children who live every day under military siege and occupation."  The free exhibit, co-sponsored by nearly twenty local organizations, was scheduled to open on September 24, and featured special activities for children and families, including a cartooning workshop and poetry readings. Ziad Abbas MECA's Associate Director said:"Even while the children in Gaza are living under Israeli policies that deprive them of every basic necessity, they managed through art, to express their realities and hopes. It's really very sad that there are people in the U.S. silencing them and shredding their dreams,"  MECA is seeking an alternative site to display the art . Some of the art work has graphic depictions of violence. No doubt the Israelis do not want art shown that depicts that occupation in a negative light.        1 of 1        
Gaza children's art. An Oakland museum cancelled a display of the works under pressure from Jewish groups.
        
northsunm32 is based in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (52.7%) Canada (8.9%) Vietnam (7.0%) China (5.0%) 19 other countries (21.3%)           READ MORE: MECA, Gaza Strip, Childrens Art, Mocha, Oakland Calif. Israel, Palestine, Ziad Abbas MECA   More News From: Berkeley :  CA :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By     MichelleDevlin
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
this is a disgusting example of the way money 'talks' in America - perhaps those who seek to silence the children of Gaza should hearken back to the days when they too were silenced and ponder upon that for a while
            Reply  Posted By     bob etier
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
This is very sad. Even if the museum directors were afraid that the drawings would be too propagandistic, they could give their patrons credit for being able to recognize state-sponsored propaganda when they see it. How disappointing this must be for the children who were to have their works displayed.
            Reply  Posted By     juewangas
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
===== { w w w }{better-----wholesaler }{ us } =======welcome to this website----free ship ping accept pay pal----
            Reply  Posted By     Yoko Otake
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
US is highly politically oriented nation even in the children's art!
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Palestinian kids’ art exhibit cancelled  
Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles
 September 12, 2011 Palestinian kids' art exhibit cancelled JTA An exhibit of Palestinian children's artwork illustrating the Gaza War, slated to be shown at a children's museum in California, has been cancelled. The exhibit scheduled to go on display...       Images    >         Childrens art    Childrens art Image Source: allvoices Gaza children's art. An Oakland museum cancelled a display of the works ...      More Related Images    More From Berkeley          Images from the 2011 Solano Stroll        How Much Water Should You Drink Per Day?        Questions about barefoot running? 'Run Barefoot Run Healthy' has answers       Freedom From Religion: It's a Godsend!          Street entertainers abound in Berkeley        Look to 2000, 2004 election results to assess Obama’s chances of winning again in 2012        Hummingbirds are so charming        Jodi Foster donation helps keep the observatory of extraterrestrial life          Robert Reich: Obama paid Republican Ransom for Debt Deal        Scientists say cancer cells may be a newly evolved parasite species that remain immortal in a Petri dish       "Patterson's Asp" airs on Punditty Project TV       Counterculture master dies at 77          Jaycee Dugard book sells 175,000 copies on first day                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10314309      Related People              Gaza          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 1       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 2       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10314309), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10314309 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10314309 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10314309-oakland-museum-of-childrens-art-shuts-down-exhibit-of-gaza-kidsart.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         