UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            7 0      
Views: 74
       Pakistan was still recovering from the horrors of last year floods, when unusal rains in the province of Sindh have added misery to their meagre resources. Last year more than 1700 people lost their lives, and over 800,000 families remain without permanent shelter even after the passage of one year. If this was not enough heavy rains this year has so far killed 132 persons and over 200.000 families have been displaced from their homes. All standing crops on an area approximately 6,879 sq km have been destroyed. The Prime Minister of Pakistan Mr. Yousaf Reza Gilani last Saturday was left with no other choice to seek help from the country men in a televised speech. He also requested UN to come forward and help Pakistan at this difficult time. UN has responded to the SOS call from Pakistan and have pledged to support the flood victims. A UN statement issued on Sunday said the humanitarian crisis in Pakistan was "still growing" after exceptionally heavy rainfall. Although no exact details of the aid have been given, but UN has reaffirmed its resolve to start distributing food, water and housing facilities to the flood affectees of the province of Sindh.        1 of 25        
Flood affected shelter less family
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (60.0%) China (13.3%) Pakistan (11.1%) Bulgaria (4.4%) 3 other countries (4.4%)           READ MORE: UN Pledges, aid, Pakistan flood victims, flood, aid for pakistan, Pakistan Flood, rain, heavy rain, Victims, Sind   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     Danish Malik
|
about 22 hours
ago
  
Hmmm An interesting Piece of topic rated up do comment on mine thanks :)
            Reply  Posted By     atifji75
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an informative report. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     saadkhan
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Good job done. Keep sharing. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Ruby1204.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well written report..Thanks for sharing news.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Ruby1204,thanks for sharing as usual good report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          America sent Food and Medical aid to Pakistan for floods affectees By: safdarjaved      The United States has sent food and medical aid to Pakistan for the hundreds of thousands of people affected by torrential rains.  State Department spokeswoman said in Washington, the United States will also send tents and other non-food items in response to a request for assistance launched by Pakistan.Another official described the ...  about 3 hours ago     Pak Army rescuing the flood victims By: zohaibzaib       
More than seven million people have been affected in current
rains and flood in Pakistan. Specially, the different parts of Sindh. The heavy
rains have flooded the whole cities and villages and there is very dangerous
situation in Sindh. The flood water has demolished the homes and property of
citizens. The tragedy has not ended yet.
...  about 11 hours ago     Floods in Pakistan: Foreign aid pours in but where are the rulers? By: StephenManual      No doubt, devastating floods in Sindh – a province of Pakistan – have rendered millions homeless while standing crops of millions of rupees have also been washed away. The flooding is being reported as worse than the previous year in terms of life and property losses. The government functionaries and institutions responsible for floods ...  about 16 hours ago     150 people dead in Sindh floods By: safdarjaved      Federal and provincial governments have mobilized all the resources to help the affected people in Sindh following  unprecedented monsoon rains that have killed over 150 people and destroyed crops and houses throughout the province.   Twenty two districts of Sindh, namely Badin, Tando Mohammad Khan, Mirpurkhas, Tharparkar, Umerkot, ...  1 day ago     China, Iran announce aid for rain affectees By: eessa2      China has announced to dispatch relief goods worth 30 million RMB (US $ 4.7 million) for the flood victims while Iran said that it would donate $100 million for the rehabilitation of the rain affected people in Sindh.Chinese Ambassador, Liu Jian called on Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar Sunday to convey the sympathies of the Chinese Government ...  1 day ago     Pakistan seeks world aid over flood By: TajdarHaider      Pakistan has sought international assistance as weeks of monsoon rains and flooding have killed more than 180 people and displaced millions of others in the country.On Saturday, Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani urged the international community to provide humanitarian and rehabilitation assistance for flood victims in 21 districts of ...  2 days ago     UN assistance to flood victims in Pakistan By: crown62      United
Nations is already starting relief operations in  Pakistan, where heavy monsoon rains and floods claimed the lives of over a hundred people and left some 200,000 homeless. In a statement, the UN said there was a huge need for assistance in the province of Sindh. The main priorities are food, water and shelter. Many areas are still ...  2 days ago     Pakistan: 5 million people affected By: kingston23      With
the wounds still fresh from the worst natural disaster in its history
last year, Pakistan is to avoid further humanitarian crisis in the
south, where flooding has caused 175 deaths and five million affected.
The
monsoon is primed farm this summer with the southern province of Sindh,
a score of whose districts have been totally or ...  2 days ago     Heavy rains in Sindh, Punjab, Baluchistan By: zeeshansali      
Heavy rains lashed and to continue in lower Sindh, South Punjab, and Balochistan and other  parts of Pakistan.
In Sindh and Balochistan several people have been dead in current rains and floods.
The  Meteorological Department reported that more rain is expected in Punjab, Sindh, and Balochistan during the next twentyfour hours.
Met ...  4 days ago     Pakistan Appeal to World aid for flood victims By: javedsgd      President
Asif Ali Zardari has appealed to the United Nations that recent rains
in Sindh and rehabilitation for victims of devastating flood relief
operations on a gAccording
to presidential spokesman Babar, president of the United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon telephoned and told him that he visited
Sindh in the rain-affected areas ...  4 days ago     Heavy rainfall in Sindh claims 9 lives in 36 hours By: zunairaumar      Nine people were killed due to continuous heavy rains and
thunderstorms during the last 36 hours in the central and lower parts of
Sindh, reported Express 24/7.
Thousands of people have reportedly gone homeless with no supply of
food and water, while thousands of acres of agricultural land has also
been destroyed.
Diseases are also spreading ...  4 days ago     Rain storm in Sindh : 14 people dead due to heavy rain in Sindh By: lalag      Badin : The monsoon rains are continued in Pakistan and it has left destruction in Sindh. More than 14 people dead due to this heavy rain and flood water. The killing occurred due to the lack of planning by the govt. . Outfall drains played havoc in Badin along with heavy rains inundating more than 100 more villages . Army and ...  5 days ago     Pakistan's Flood Death Toll Rises to 123 By: muhammadyar      Pakistani Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani has directed the authorities to immediately activate the National Health Emergency Response Unit to urgently deal with the outbreak of water-borne diseases in the floods-hit areas in southern parts of the country as the death toll from flood-related incidents reached 123 in the country, said officials ...  6 days ago     Pakistan floods: several Sindh districts devastated after rains  By: KhAmmarAhmed1      After heavy rain lashed Sindh, the number of those affected keeps increasing,
A number of families have migrated from the flood-hit areas while thousands are still waiting for the help.
Rain spell has started again in Khairpur and adjoining areas meanwhile in Khairpur district 6,000 villages have been inundated due to flooding.  7 days ago     LOSSES BY RECENT FLOODS AND HEAVY RAINS IN PAKISTAN By: MuhammadSabir      As many as 4,639,989 persons have been affected by recent floods and heavy rains in Pakistan.
Briefing newsmen in Islamabad, the Chairman of national Disaster Management Authority Dr. Zafar Qadir said 271,677 houses fully damaged while 699,468 houses received partial damages. The standing crops on 1,700,000 acres were affected.
The NDMA Chairman ...  7 days ago     95 killed in heavy rains and floods in Sindh/Balochistan By: safdarjaved      
Ninetyfive persons have been killed in current heavy rains and floods in Sindh and Balochistan and several people have been homeless.
According to Meteorological office, the current spell of heavy rains in Sindh will continue for next three days.
Heavy rains and floods lashed in Sukkar, Mirpur Khas and Hyderabad divisions and moderate to heavy ...  7 days ago     Sindh govt pledges Rs10, 000 for each flood-hit family By: Ammaduddin      KARACHI: The Government of Sindh announced on Saturday it would give Rs10, 000 in financial assistance to each flood-hit family of the province. The announcement was made by Sindh Information Minister Sharjil Memon at a press conference today. Mr. Memon said a committee has been constituted to determine the human and financial losses caused by ...  9 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     UN pledges aid for Pakistan flood victims  
Al Jazeera English
 02 The United Nations has vowed to help victims of flooding in southern Pakistan, responding to Islamabad's calls for international help for up to five million people affected by recent monsoon rains. A UN statement issued on Sunday said the...    Pakistan floods test cash-strapped gov't  
Chicago Tribune
 Mai Mora, 70, who has been displaced by heavy floods for almost a year, begs for relief while sitting outside her tent in Dadu, located in PakistanOs Sindh province on July 9, 2011. Pakistan's cash-strapped government, still struggling to help...    Pakistan flood relief tests cash-strapped government  
Moreover Silicon Valley
 Pakistan's cash-strapped government, still struggling to help victims of last year's floods, could face another major test as monsoon rains sweep across Sindh province in the south. "The situation in Sindh is already serious and there will be more...    US providing aid to flood victims in Pakistan  
India Abroad
 The United States is providing relief material and aid to the flood affected people of Pakistan following an appeal in this regard from Prime Minister Yousuf Gilani, a US official has said. "In response to Pakistan's September 9 appeal, the US has...    UN steps in as Pakistan floods kill over 200  
Channel NewsAsia
 The United Nations on Monday began a drive to feed half a million people affected by torrential rains in Pakistan where a second year of flooding has killed more than 200, officials said. The crisis came just weeks after aid agency Oxfam accused the...    Pak-Iran Talks:Gilani, Ahmadinejad Agree on Impetus to Bilateral Ties  
pakistantimes
 Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani and President Mehmoud Ahmadinejad on Monday exchanged views to give fresh impetus to their existing bilateral cooperation in various fields ranging from trade and economy to security and intelligence sharing.   More Related Stories     Images    >         PFD    PFD Image Source: allvoices Flood affected shelter less family        Girls, displaced by heavy ...    Girls, displaced by heavy ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Girls, displaced by heavy floods almost a year ago, look out from their ...        The United States on Thursday ...    The United States on Thursday ... Image Source: www.afp.com The United States on Thursday pledged an additional 25 million dollars of ...        Three-year-old girl, displaced ...    Three-year-old girl, displaced ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Three-year-old girl, displaced by heavy floods almost a year ago, reacts as ...        A woman, internally displaced ...    A woman, internally displaced ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A woman, internally displaced by heavy floods for nearly a year, smokes a ...        A boy, internally displaced by ...    A boy, internally displaced by ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A boy, internally displaced by heavy floods for nearly a year, plays ...      More Related Images    More From New York City          US OPEN 2011 REPLAY: Novak Djokovic VS. Rafael Nadal REPLAY        Palestinian UN Bid Update        Photos of Lady Gaga Wore Underwear - Thanks to Her        Novak Djokovic wins his first U.S. Open           Tennis / U.S. open : Nadal could with the number 1        J. Lo continued to Bradley Cooper?        POSERS..       Straight A’s Movie (2012)          Rocking Armani        Jessica Chastain and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Join Mama        Hotel Transylvania Movie (2012)        Chronicle Movie (2012)         Drive Movie Trailer                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10312821          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 16       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 25       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10312821), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10312821 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10312821 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10312821-un-pledges-aid-for-pakistan-flood-victims.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         