Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured    Ambon :  Indonesia
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            6 0      
Views: 120
       The Indonesian government had to send Army to control the clashes between the Muslims and Chritians in the eastern city Ambon. These secretarian clashes hav accounted for the life of five persons. According to the reports another 80 have been injured. This is not the first time that clashes between the Muslims and the Christians have taken place in this city. Conflicts between Christians and Muslims between 1999 and 2002 left more than 5,000 dead and half a million people displaced. The death of a Muslim taxi driver Darvin Saiman who died in a traffic accident this Sunday sparked these clashes. According, to the police officials his scooter skidded and he died while being evacuated to the hospital. Unfortunately, SMS's were circulated among the Muslim population that Darvin Saiman was killed by the Christians. Therefore at the time of the funeral hot words were exchanged between the two communities which resulted in a full fledged battle. Many houses and shops were burnt during these clashes. The identity and religion of those who have ben killed has not yet been disclosed. The situation remains tense in the city.        1 of 38        
Several hundred troops have been deployed in Ambon to stabilise the situation
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (48.6%) Netherlands (9.5%) China (8.1%) Portugal (8.1%) 9 other countries (18.9%)           READ MORE: Muslim Christian clashes, Indonesia, 5 killed, 80 injured, Army sent, Clashes, Muslims, Injured, dead, communities, Christians   More News From: Ambon :  Indonesia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     atifji75
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an informative report. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     saadkhan
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Of course this is a very tragic news. Anyway Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written but sad news,Ruby1204.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
defeats the purpose of "religion?" rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
So sad ,well written report...Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Ruby1204,thanks for sharing as usual good report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          At least 40 killed: Religious violence in Nigeria taking serious turn ... By: hkbadal      At least 40 people have been killed in separate religious clashes between Christian and Muslim communities in Jos city of Nigeria in last one week.
Local media reported that the latest round of violent incidents took place late on Thursday.
Relatively youths of two sides are mainly taking part in the clashes, using firearms, knives and other ...  9 days ago     Muslim-Christian conflict: 9 dead  By: tahirbubak      
The city of Jos in Nigeria yesterday, the clash between Muslims and Christians were killed 9 people.
Al-Jazeera, according to the Muslim community assistance teams, composed of Christian youths, gangs of Muslims gathered for worship on the previous day 106 people wounded in the attack said. tools, burning Christians, Muslims, Christians, ...  14 days ago     Religious violence kills at least four dead in Nigeria By: kingston23      Several clashes were reported on Monday between Christians and Muslims in the Nigerian city of Jos, a region frequently affected by communal violence. Reports say at least four people were killed and wounded during the fighting. A BBC reporter in Jos said the security forces used firearms in various parts of the city. According to the ...  14 days ago     Ahmadis under threat: Increasing religious intolerance in Indonesia By: StephenManual      
An international outrage was caused in February by a clash that took place in Cikeusik– one of the remote districts of Indonesia – following appearance of a graphic video online filmed in the district. The video shows a house being attacked by more than a 1,000 Muslim fundamentalists wherein 21 Ahmadis were living. The attackers ...  25 days ago     Egypt: Three Christians Killed in Violent Attacks  By: success4u      No fewer than three Christians were left dead after a violent attack in Minya province, south of Egypt and among them is a council worker Maher Nassif Tobias.
This indication is contained in a report by Release International (www.releaseinternational.org) a United Kingdom (UK) Christian charity organization adding that in the most recent attack, ...  26 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Troops sent to Indonesia clashes  
BBC
 Troops sent after deadly clashes in Indonesia's Ambon Several hundred troops have been deployed in Ambon to stabilise the situation The Indonesian government has sent hundreds of security personnel to the eastern city of Ambon following sectarian...    Indonesia sends in police after Ambon clash  
Channel NewsAsia
 Indonesia has deployed hundreds of security personnel to Ambon, a city with a history of major sectarian violence, after clashes left three people dead, a police spokesman said Monday. The violence erupted in the Maluku provincial capital on Sunday...    Indonesia sends troops to quell sectarian clashes  
Taiwan News
 Indonesia deployed security forces to an eastern region after gangs of Muslims and Christians armed with rocks and machetes clashed in violence that left three people dead and 80 others injured, officials said Monday.    Indonesian ethnic clashes leave six dead  
United Press International
 Police in Ambon, Indonesia, will pursue anyone they suspect of involvement in violence between Christian and Muslim groups that left six people dead and around 80 injured. Inter-ethnic violence erupted in Ambon, capital of Indonesia's Maluku province...       Images    >         IT    IT Image Source: allvoices Several hundred troops have been deployed in Ambon to stabilise the ...        Muslims form 80% of Indonesia'...    Muslims form 80% of Indonesia'... Image Source: www.afp.com Muslims form 80% of Indonesia's 240-million population, but Christianity is ...        The military statement ...    The military statement ... Image Source: www.afp.com The military statement followed Muslim-Christian clashes        Two Christian demonstrators ...    Two Christian demonstrators ... Image Source: www.afp.com Two Christian demonstrators were killed during last month's deadly clashes        A Christian looks at a church ...    A Christian looks at a church ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A Christian looks at a church set on fire during clashes between Muslims ...        Christians look at a church ...    Christians look at a church ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Christians look at a church which was set on fire during clashes between ...      More Related Images    More From Ambon         NEW FROM RIOTS IN AMBON       RIOTS IN AMBON, INDONESIA       Timur Pradopo states have sent 400 police personnel to assist security in Ambon       three people reportedly died in clashes between residents in Ambon          Chinese culture traces the 16th century AD was discovered in Haruku, Ambon Island         Tofu 'may raise risk of dementia'         Ex-army chief arrested after attack on president's home        100-Years-Old Snake Man Passes Away in Florida          Chimp Attack Victim's Face Transplant a Success        Buddhists in several regions celebrate Vesak Day         How To Train You Dragon: Biggest Blast OF The Year        World youth assembly in Ambon to have strategic impact          Dutch soccer star to visit Ambon                 Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10313110          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 4       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 38       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10313110), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10313110 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10313110 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10313110-muslims-christians-clashes-in-indonesia-leave-5-dead-80-injured.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         