Italians asks Chinese to purchase its bonds: report                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Italians asks Chinese to purchase its bonds: report     Beijing :  China
|
Sep 13, 2011
 
By HumTum            7 0      
Views: 94
       Italy to China "important" to purchase the Italian debt, the Financial Times reported Monday on its Web site. Italian officials told the FT that China Investment (CIC), chairman of the Corporation, take Jiwei, head of Rome last week with a delegation of Giulio TremontiGiulio Tremonti, finance minister, and Italy to meet with Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. , FT two weeks ago, Italian officials said the CIC and the foreign currency (reserve) that the bulk of China's foreign exchange reserves managed by the State Administration of China in Beijing was to meet. CIC's $ 300 billion in the country's sovereign wealth fund. China in April, indicating the euro zone of weak states can buy more credit. There are no exact figures, but said China's multi-billion euro loan is purchased. Wu Xiaoling, on Tuesday, a former Deputy Governor of Bank of China, told Reuters that the European investors nervous about the credit crisis "is not necessary, and China to work with others in the market is ready to boost confidence. Wu, the National People's Congress Standing Committee, the legislative body is said to "maintain a strong euro will continue to support the efforts of Europe". Euro U.S. $ 3.2 trillion of assets held in the China's record foreign exchange reserves estimated at a quarter, with the Chinese leaders repeatedly mired single currency loan has expressed support for the sector. Premier Wen Jiabao said this month that China maintains confidence in the euro and the European economy, but the governments there to ensure the safety of Chinese investment is needed.        1 of 7        
Italian officials were in Beijing to meet CIC and China's
     
HumTum is based in Sargodha, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (54.7%) Pakistan (18.9%) France (13.2%) Norway (3.8%) 3 other countries (3.8%)           READ MORE: the euro, said, European, government, euro zone, china investment, Bank of China, Economy   More News From: Beijing :  China      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 7            Reply  Posted By     shiraxinco
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
this is going to have a massive effect on global financial conditioneither waysrated up
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well China has the money if any one country does... rated up!
            Reply  Posted By     nthabeleng
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
good report, thanks for posting. rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an interesting report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Thanks all friends for lovely comment on my post
            Reply  Posted By     rabbas11
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
17 minutes
ago
  
thanks for sharing as usual good report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Italy asks China to buy its bonds: report (Reuters)  
Turks and Caicos Free Press
 Italy has asked China to make "significant" purchases of Italian debt, the Financial Times reported on its website on Monday. Italian officials told the FT that Lou Jiwei, chairman of China Investment Corp, headed up a delegation to Rome last week to...    Reports: Italy asks China to buy bonds, invest  
AP Online
 Italian officials have held talks with China's sovereign wealth fund in an effort to persuade Beijing to buy Italy's government bonds or invest in its companies, news reports said Tuesday.
The chairman of China Investment Corp. met with...    China eyeing wholesale purchase of Italy?  
Russia Today
 As Italian lawmakers continue to debate a 54-billion-euro austerity package, more and more people are losing faith in its efficacy. Some are even trying to introduce own currency to avoid economic woes...With Italy second only to Greece in the...    Italy: Rome 'turns to China for held during debt crisis'  
AKI
 Italy has held talks with China in an effort to convince the world's second-largest economic power to purchase a significant amount of bonds and shares of strategic companies to help it emerge from a debt crisis that has sent volatility through...    Italy confirms talks with China's CIC  
Sydney Morning Herald
 Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti met with a Chinese delegation in the Italian capital last week, including Lou Jiwei, the head of the China Investment Corporation, the spokesman told Agence France-Presse on Tuesday, without giving details. According...    China in talks over buying Italian debt  
The Guardian
 Italian finance minister Giulio Tremonti met the head of China Investment Corp in Rome last week. Photograph: Riccardo De Luca/AP China could step in to help rescue Europe from its debt crisis after holding top-level talks with Italy 's finance...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Italians asks Chinese to ...    Italians asks Chinese to ... Image Source: allvoices  Italian officials were in Beijing to meet CIC and China's        Italy's Prime Minister Silvio ...    Italy's Prime Minister Silvio ... Image Source: www.afp.com Italy's Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, whose government has approved ...        Italian Senator Roberto ...    Italian Senator Roberto ... Image Source: www.afp.com Italian Senator Roberto Calderoli (L) talks to Italy's Finance Minister ...        Spain's Economy Minister ...    Spain's Economy Minister ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Spain's Economy Minister Salgado listens to Italy's Finance Minister ...        Italian Cabinet Undersecretary ...    Italian Cabinet Undersecretary ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Italian Cabinet Undersecretary Letta gestures with Italy's Economy Minister ...        Italy's Prime Minister Silvio ...    Italy's Prime Minister Silvio ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Italy's Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi gestures after arriving at the ...      More Related Images    More From Beijing          Blast at a chemical plant in China 3 dead        The first Chinese book on strategic communication comes out        Italians asks Chinese to purchase its bonds: report         Asian Hockey Champions Trophy: Indian beat Green Shirts 4-2 .         congragulations INDIA, well played PAKISTAN..!        India beat Pakistan in Asian Hockey Champions Trophy        Asian Champions Trophy final: India win on penalties       India beats Pakistan in Asian Hockey Champions Trophy final           Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs. India final today        Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs. India final today        The Final B/W India and Pakistan will play Today.        South Korea win women Asian Hockey Champions Trophy          Hockey: Pakistan face India in 1st Asian Champions Trophy today                        Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10320678      Related People              Giulio Tremonti          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 31       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 7       Comments: 7    7       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10320678), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10320678 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10320678 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Italians asks Chinese to purchase its bonds: report ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10320678-italians-asks-chinese-to-purchase-its-bonds-report.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         