Houston Insurance Claims Attorney says Wildfire Victims Will Need Legal Help to Get Proper Payments for Losses 







Home




News Center




Blog





Login




Create Account






											United States
										



United Kingdom


United States











Front Page


Arts


Business


Education


Environment


Government


Industry


Lifestyle


Sports


Tech

OtherAutomotiveComputerEventsHealthHome and Family
Legal / LawMediaMiscellaneousOpinion / EditorialPodcasting
ScienceSociety 
















RSS


E-mail Newsletters


Put PRWeb on your site












Houston Insurance Claims Attorney says Wildfire Victims Will Need Legal Help to Get Proper Payments for Losses 
Brad T. Wyly of Houston’s Wyly Law Firm, P.C., reminds Texans that insurance firms are businesses that tend to look after their fiscal well-being before their policyholders. 







ShareThis
                                                            




Email



PDF



Print
                                                            







Houston insurance claims attorney Brad T. Wyly

Homeowners who have just been through the tragic loss of their homes and belongings are in no shape to go up against insurance company claims settlers who deal with these types of incidents on a daily basis.

Houston, Texas (PRWEB) September 10, 2011  Brad T. Wyly, a veteran Houston insurance claims attorney, cautioned Texans to seek legal help immediately if they have suffered property losses in the state’s recent wildfires.
“Homeowners filing fire insurance claims need to keep in mind that insurance companies are, first and foremost, profit-seeking businesses that do not help their bottom line by paying money to clients,” said Wyly, president of the Wyly Law Firm, P.C., which represents clients in insurance disputes and victims of personal injury.
“Your insurance company has a legal duty to deal with you in good faith, but insurance adjusters have a financial obligation to their employers to make as low a payment as possible, regardless of your losses,” said Wyly.
More than 170 wildfires across Texas have destroyed nearly 1,800 homes, killed four people and forced thousands to evacuate in the first two weeks of this month alone in what’s shaping up to be the costliest fire season on record in the Lone Star State.
“Homeowners who have just been through the tragic loss of their homes and belongings are in no shape to go up against insurance company claims settlers who deal with these types of incidents on a daily basis,” Wyly said.
Wyly explained that insurance companies can deny, underpay or delay payment of fire and property insurance claims by individuals or businesses, which are known as first-party insurance claims. 
“Hurricane Ike hit Texas in September 2008 and we’ve helped numerous victims of that storm settle residential property insurance claims over the years since,” Wyly said. “We know firsthand how stubborn and tight-fisted insurance companies can be.”
The Wyly Law Firm has helped homeowners and businesses throughout Texas, including Harris County, Houston, Baytown, Pasadena, Galveston and Beaumont, to obtain the settlements they deserved for losses under residential and commercial property insurance policies.
“We’ve seen unfair insurance practices all too often,” Wyly said. “But we’ve also found that insurance companies are more likely to be reasonable if they know a plaintiff is represented by an attorney who is not afraid to take a case to trial.”
“We’ll sit beside our clients at the bargaining table and stand beside them in court – whatever it takes to make sure they get the full amount of compensation for their losses.”
About Wyly Law Firm, P.C.
The Wyly Law Firm, P.C., is a Houston law firm that represents people in insurance disputes throughout Houston and surrounding communities, including Harris County, Baytown, Pasadena, Galveston, Beaumont, Bellaire, Cloverleaf, Spring Valley, Missouri City, Aldine and Jersey City. The firm also handles personal injury and business law matters. 
Attorney Brad T. Wyly, the firm’s founder, is a skilled negotiator and lawyer. Wyly has extensive experience in personal injury cases, including claims involving complex accidents, catastrophic injuries and wrongful deaths. He has been named a Rising Star in Law & Politics magazine. To contact Wyly Law Firm, P.C., call (713) 574-7034 or use the firm’s online form.
###



                                                            Share:
                                                        


































                                        Contact
                                    



Brad T. Wyly

Wyly Law Firm, P.C. 
(713) 574-7034
Email





Mike Dayton

Consultwebs.com 
(919) 880-1748
Email





                                                Past News Releases
                                                

Subscribe




New Jersey Workers’ Compensation...



Elizabeth City Personal Injury...



Kentucky Elder Abuse Attorneys Say...




















PRWeb Home


News Center





We're here to help.
Call 1-866-640-6397



Twitter


LinkedIn


Facebook







Why PRWeb


How It Works


Who Uses It


Pricing


Learning


Blog




About Vocus


Contact Us


Partners



											Subscribe to News


Terms of Service


Privacy Policy


Copyright


Site Map














Create Account






©Copyright 1997-, Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC.
                    Vocus, PRWeb, and Publicity Wire are trademarks or registered trademarks of Vocus, Inc. or Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC.








