Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported    Marcolès :  France
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By Ruby1204            8 1      
Views: 314
       According to the media reports a blast has occurred at a French Nuclear plant. The blast is reported to have taken place at a plant located at Gard department in Languedoc-Roussillon region, near France's Mediterranean coast. The initial reports say that at least one person has died and another four have been injured. Although there have been no reports of leakage of nuclear radiations, the French Nuclear energy commission have set up a security perimeter to ward off any such threat in the aftermath of the blast. Police said there were no signs of contamination outside the site, which is located some 30 km from the city of Avignon, and about 80 km from the Mediterranean coast. The explosion happened in an incinerator that processes waste with a low level of radioactivity, plant's officials told media. It is yet to be investigated what caused the blast. No reactors are placed at the plant, which is one of the major sites of the French Nuclear programme, mostly used for the decomissioning of the nuclear facilities.         1 of 13        
At least one dead in explosion where radioactive waste was being treated.
     
Ruby1204 is based in Rāwalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (54.4%) Canada (12.4%) Portugal (4.2%) Germany (3.9%) 25 other countries (20.8%)           READ MORE: blast, nuclear plant, France   More News From: Marcolès :  France      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 9            Reply  Posted By     Robert Weller
|
about 23 hours
ago
  
Le Monde: An oven exploded in a treatment center for nuclear waste at Marcoule in the Gard region, killing one and injuring others. The government said there was "no radioactive leak."
            Reply  Posted By     Robert Weller
|
about 22 hours
ago
  
This is not a nuclear power plant. It is a treatment center only. Still plenty dangerous.
            Reply  Reply By     Ruby1204
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for pointing out the true picture.
            Reply  Posted By     Robert Weller
|
about 22 hours
ago
  
It is about 20 miles from Avignon
            Reply  Posted By     RaulDeSouza
|
about 20 hours
ago
  
I hope that everything is contained in time before more damage is done.
            Reply  Posted By     saadkhan
|
about 18 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Mohammad Shabbir Murtaza
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for an informative report. Rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report,Ruby1204.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Ruby1204,thanks for sharing as usual good report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Deadly blast at French nuclear plant  By: lethibichlan      
At least one person dead and four wounded in the explosion of a nuclear power plant in southern France today.The explosion occurred at 11h45 local time at the factory Marcoule, BBC reported. A security cordon was immediately established to prevent the risks that could threaten the environment around nuclear power plants. Officials at ...  about 11 hours ago     Fatal blast rocks French nuclear waste site By: sweetsana      
At least one person was killed and four others were wounded by an explosion at the nuclear waste management site of Marcoule in France's southern Languedoc region on Monday. Authorities said there was no risk of a radioactive leak.
  about 15 hours ago     Blast at French nuclear site kills one, no leaks By: YawarNaqvi       
(Reuters) - A
worker was killed in an explosion at a French nuclear waste site on
Monday, but officials said there was no radioactive leak and the
authorities quickly declared the emergency over.
Four people were also injured,
one with serious burns, in the blast at the Centraco site, owned by
French power utility EDF and adjacent to ...  about 18 hours ago      (In pictures) 1 dead, 4 hurt in French nuclear explosion By: ahmedibrahem      
 A nuclear waste site in southern France had an explosion Monday that killed one person, seriously burned another and slightly injured three others, France's nuclear safety body said.
 
Officials at France's atomic energy commission told ABC News the explosion occurred in a furnace used to melt waste with low to very low radioactive ...  about 18 hours ago     First incident to Fukushima triggers panic  By: nabeela2001      An explosion at a nuclear plant in France, creating unrest. Previously you would have called the incident as an "industrial accident". After Fukushima raw nerves.
It was the first major accident at a nuclear plant in France since the disaster in Fukushima . A man was killed and four others were injured. They were not ...  about 18 hours ago     One killed in French nuclear plant explosion  By: prabirghose      
Reports of death of at least one person
have been reported from the Marcoule nuclear waste processing plant in southern
France near Nimes – his body was carbonized. Four others have been injured in
the explosion. It seems one of the ovens exploded. The setup produces MOX fuel
which recycles the plutoni  about 20 hours ago     Explosion at France nuclear waste site, no radioactive leakage ... By: wendyzachary      A blast at a France nuclear waste treatment site has killed one, while four injured have been rushed to the hospital. ASN, France’s nuclear safety watch dog, assured that no radioactive material has been leaked beyond the furnace in which the explosion took place.
The site, which is about 30 km from the city of Avignon and about 80 km from ...  about 21 hours ago     Explosion at French nuclear plant - One dead  By: nabeela2001      On the grounds of a French nuclear site of an explosion has occurred. A man was killed and several people were injured.
With the explosion of a furnace for radioactive waste at the site of a nuclear facility in France a man was killed. Three other people have suffered severe burns, it said in initial reports. According to the ...  about 21 hours ago     Blast rocks French nuclear plant, safety perimeter established By: aniskhan26      An explosion at a French nuclear plant has put authorities on high alert due to the threat of a radioactive leak. The explosion was caused by a fire in a storage site for radioactive waste at the Marcoule plant, according to the local Le Figaro newspaper. One person was reportedly killed in the blast and three workers were injured. The ...  about 21 hours ago     France: risk of nuclear plant leak By: karasiwo      It was reported that explosion at Marcoule, near the city of Nimes in southern France, was a furnace of nuclear waste treatment.One person was killed and four injured.Around the plant was set up a security cordon.Local emergency services say there is a risk of radioactive leakage, but so far has not detected contamination.The center is used to ...  about 22 hours ago     Nuclear plant explosion in France By: kingston23      There are fears of radioactive leak after an explosion at a nuclear plant in southern France. According to local media, one person was killed and three wounded. The Marcoule plant is located in the Gard region.  about 22 hours ago     Explosion at French nuclear plant  By: nabeela2001      On the grounds of a French nuclear power plant is an explosion occurred. There should be a dead and injured.
With the explosion of a furnace for radioactive waste at the site of a nuclear facility in France a man was killed. Whether radioactivity was released into the environment, do not you know, a spokeswoman said the nuclear plant at ...  about 23 hours ago     Six months post-Fukushima, weighing costs, risks key to nuclear ... By: raheemgul      The Futaba district of Japan's Fukushima prefecture was once defined
largely by its farmers and its fishermen, as well as by its vast nuclear
complexes that funneled power to Tokyo.
But six months after a
potent 9.0-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami set off a mad,
weeks-long scramble to curb an outflow of radiation from the ...  1 day ago     Nuclear stress test!  By: tahirbubak      
France, "the world's nuclear power plants get in the test," the demand
French Industry Minister Eric Besson, all the world's nuclear power plants''stress test''to pass through the International Atomic Energy Agency announced that a request be found. ''''television channel France 2 Besson answering questions on the subject, the ...  14 days ago     Hotel bomb kills 12 in Nowshera By: mahnor      PESHAWAR/NOWSHERA - At least 12 persons were killed and 14 others were injured as a result of powerful bomb blast in Resalpur Bazaar of Nowshera Thursday evening.Police sources and eyewitnesses said the bomb was planted to a bicycle stand outside the Descent restaurant and fast food centre. A large number of people were present near the restaurant ...  18 days ago     Remote-controlled blast kills nine in Nowshera By: tahahashmi      
NOWSHERA: At least nine people were killed and more than 20 injured when explosion ripped through a busy market place in Nowshera city.
Officials said the blast took place at Risalpur Chowk near old custom house, which according to initial reports killed nine people and wounded at least two dozen.
“It was triggered by a remote-controlled ...  18 days ago     Report: A senior official from the United Nations visit nuclear sites ... By: mohamedabdelfattah       
an Iranian news agency that the high-level officials from the United Nations last week visited all the major nuclear sites in Iran in a time when the Islamic Republic to resume talks with major powers over its nuclear program.  Nacarts Herman, head of "safeguards" in the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Iran for five days ...  20 days ago     'How nuclear power should have the consent of the people' By: taophuyen      Nuclear Energy Institute Vietnam has signed cooperation agreements with leaders of Ninh Thuan province for their operation projects of nuclear power plants, including advocacy to people in many ways.The contents of the agreement will cooperate in implementing the management activities of state for nuclear power projects in the province of Ninh ...  25 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Blast rocks nuclear plant in France  
Russia Today
 Meanwhile French nuclear authorities say there is no leak at this time.All of the plant's reactors have been shut down following the incident. There is no clear information immediately available as to how much risk the incident poses. A partial view...    Explosion at nuclear plant in southern France  
Arizona Republic
 The French nuclear safety body and local authorities say an explosion has rocked the Marcoule nuclear plant in southern France. It was not immediately clear how serious the accident was, or whether there were any victims or the potential for leaks.    Accident at nuclear site in France  
Al Jazeera
 21 An explosion has occurred at a nuclear site in southern France, according to the country's nuclear safety watchdog. The facility at Marcoule is a nuclear waste management site that does not include any reactors. The explosion took place near a...    'French nuclear site hit by blast'  
The Sun UK
 ONE man is thought to have died and four people were injured in a blast at a nuclear site in France. An explosion rocked the plant at 10.45am BST, sparking fears of a radioactive leak. It followed a fire in the storage facility for radioactive waste.    1 dead in explosion at French nuclear plant  
Kuwait News Top Stories
 The French nuclear safety body says one person died and another was seriously injured Monday in an explosion at the Marcoule nuclear site in southern France. The Nuclear Safety Authority said there have been no radiation leaks outside of the plant,...    Explosion kills at least one at a nuclear plant in southern France  
Los Angeles Times
 At least one person was killed and four injured when a furnace exploded Monday at the Marcoule nuclear waste treatment site in southern France . Authorites say there was no radioactive leakage to the outside. Evangelia Petit of the Agency for Nuclear...   More Related Stories     Images    >         France Nuclear Explosion    France Nuclear Explosion Image Source: allvoices At least one dead in explosion where radioactive waste was being treated.        BN    BN Image Source: allvoices Blast at French Nuclear Plant        A nuclear power plant    A nuclear power plant Image Source: www.afp.com A nuclear power plant        The Fessenheim nuclear power ...    The Fessenheim nuclear power ... Image Source: www.afp.com The Fessenheim nuclear power plant, the oldest nuclear power plant in ...        Areva Tricastin nuclear plant    Areva Tricastin nuclear plant Image Source: www.afp.com Areva Tricastin nuclear plant        A view of the Chernobyl ...    A view of the Chernobyl ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A view of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant      More Related Images            Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10312334          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 22       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 18       Comments: 9    9       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10312334), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10312334 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10312334 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10312334-blast-at-french-nuclear-plant.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         