Unwanted Visitor: Portrait of Wildfire by National Ranching Heritage Center — Kickstarter





What is Kickstarter?
We’re the largest funding platform for creative projects in the world.
Learn more!





Kickstarter

Discover great projects
Start your project










Blog
Help
Sign up
Log in








Close





Previous



Next








Unwanted Visitor: Portrait of Wildfire


A
Sculpture

project
in
Lubbock, TX
by
National Ranching Heritage Center
•
send message





Don't want to forget? We'll remind you by email 48 hours before funding ends.



Remind Me




Project Home
Updates 4
Backers 12
Comments 0



















Embed




Copy







About this projectUnwanted Visitor: Portrait of Wildfire is an outdoor art installation that will raise awareness of wildfire in an area that has been severely affected by drought.
This
installation will be on display outdoors at the National Ranching Heritage Center in
Lubbock, TX and is being created by sculptor Herb Williams of Nashville, TN,
who is designing several freestanding, three-dimensional sculptures of wildfire
using the media of Crayola crayons. Because each sculpture is made of
wax, it will melt and change shape in the hot outdoor conditions. 
Moreover, each piece of art will continue to be altered by blowing wind and dry
conditions such as those that affect the intensity and duration of real
wildfire. The colorful crayons will provide a striking contrast to the dry,
brown landscape and be reminiscent of an actual wildfire.  
Educational
programming will occur throughout the exhibit, which is
expected to be 2 to 3 months. Programs will focus on raising awareness of
wildfire, causes, its effect on the surrounding environment, fire prevention
and the purpose of prescribed burning. Programming will vary from early
childhood through adult.The money that we raise will help buy materials to create the sculptures (which will be as tall as 8 feet), assist with travel fees for the artist and provide money for educational programs, which will be offered free to the public.Our current funding goal is the minimum amount required to host the project. If this goal is surpassed, we can create more educational programming. We can also purchase elements, such as magnifying glasses shaped like objects that cause fire, to provide to visitors. This will allow them to share in the melting process of the sculptures, which will make the installation more interactive and engaging for visitors.To learn more about artist Herb Williams and see him at work in his studio, watch this!





Sculpture maquettes in the studio


Our sculpture maquettes melting in the hot Texas sun
































FAQ




Ask a question

Have a question?
If the info above doesn't help, you can ask the project creator directly.




Report this project to Kickstarter





12
Backers


$1,985
pledged of $2,500 goal



5

days to go


This project will only be funded if at least $2,500 is pledged by Thursday Sep 15,  1:07pm EDT.


Back This Project $5 minimum pledge





Pledge $5 or more



2 Backers



Receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Sep 2011



Pledge $25 or more



3 Backers



One high-resolution photo of the melting sculptures will be emailed to you, receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Oct 2011



Pledge $50 or more



1 Backer



One high-resolution photo of the melting sculptures and the file of the time lapse of the melting will be emailed to you, receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Oct 2011



Pledge $100 or more



2 Backers


•
Limited Reward
(98 of 100 remaining)



5x7 professional print of a photograph of the melting sculpture, signed by artist Herb Williams, will be mailed to you, receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Nov 2011



Pledge $250 or more



1 Backer


•
Limited Reward
(99 of 100 remaining)



8x10 professional print of a photograph of the melting sculpture, signed by artist Herb Williams, will be mailed to you, receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Nov 2011



Pledge $500 or more



0 Backers


•
Limited Reward
(50 of 50 remaining)



16x20 professional print of a photograph of the melting sculpture, signed by artist Herb Williams, will be mailed to you, receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Nov 2011



Pledge $1,000 or more



1 Backer


•
Limited Reward
(24 of 25 remaining)



20x24 professional print of a photograph of the melting sculpture and an 8 pack of Crayola crayons, signed by artist Herb Williams, will be mailed to you, receive weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Nov 2011



Pledge $5,000 or more



0 Backers


•
Limited Reward
(2 of 2 remaining)



A maquette of one of the wildfire sculptures will be mailed to you, weekly email updates of the project's progress, invitation to the installation's opening in Lubbock, TX


Estimated Delivery:
Nov 2011




Project By

National Ranching Heritage Center


Lubbock, TX


Send Message



The National Ranching Heritage Center is a unique museum and historical park comprised of 48 authentic dwellings and out buildings from some of history’s most important ranches. Structures on the 16-acre site have been authentically restored and furnished and date from the late 1780s to the 1950s. The NRHC is located on the Texas Tech University campus in Lubbock, Texas. The museum is open Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and has no admission fee, although donations are accepted.  
Artist Herb Williams is one of the only individuals in the world with an account with Crayola. He creates original sculptures out of individual crayons that may require as many as hundreds of thousands. His sculptures have been placed in public arenas such as children’s hospitals, corporate lobbies, museum walls and the White House. Mr. Williams received The Joan Mitchell Foundation Museum Purchase Grant in 2004, the Next Star Artist Award in 2008 and was sponsored by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts in 2011. The press and acclaim the crayon sculptures have garnered has reached as far as China, England, Canada, Belgium, Germany, Australia, Croatia and Japan. His work was featured at an Inaugural art exhibit in Washington, DC with Shepard Fairey and, most recently, he opened “Plunderland”, a walk-in room installation consisting of almost 500,000 crayons in New York. Currently, he is working on a secret project that will break a major world record in New York City on September 1st.



NRHC.ttu.edu


herbwilliamsart.com









44044


Hide



previously viewed


next in
Sculpture


next in
Lubbock, TX









FACE ME, Artbeing; kinetic sculpture, touch to begin
by Anna K Donahue



Live EP Recording
by The Restored












Browse Categories

Art
Comics
Dance
Design
Fashion
Film & Video
Food


Games
Music
Photography
Technology
Theater
Writing & Publishing




Kickstarter's weekly newsletter
Get awesome projects delivered to your inbox each week.


Your email address...




Kickstarter on Facebook



Connect with Kickstarter

Follow on Twitter
Read our blog
Meet the team
Work with us










Help
Guidelines
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact



©
2011
Kickstarter, Inc.














What is Kickstarter?Close


Kickstarter is the largest funding platform for creative projects in the world. Every week, tens of thousands of amazing people pledge millions of dollars to projects from the worlds of music, film, art, technology, design, food, publishing and other creative fields.

A new form of commerce and patronage.
This is not about investment or lending. Project creators keep 100% ownership and control over their work. Instead, they offer products and experiences that are unique to each project.


All or nothing funding.
On Kickstarter, a project must reach its funding goal before time runs out or no money changes hands. Why? It protects everyone involved. Creators aren’t expected to develop their project without necessary funds, and it allows anyone to test concepts without risk.


Each and every project is the independent creation of someone like you.
Projects are big and small, serious and whimsical, traditional and experimental. They’re inspiring, entertaining and unbelievably diverse. We hope you agree... Welcome to Kickstarter!

Thanks! All done.














