

	Lying to protect your card account from ID theft: Why experts discourage it  - CreditCards.com





















Living with credit (404)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            New, interesting products (95)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Research, regulation, industry reports (227)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Rewards (37)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Protecting yourself (152)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            The fine print (63)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Credit card miscellany (368)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Add category (1)
        
        
        
            
        
          | 
        
    
        
            Celebrity Money Watch (3)
        
        
        
            
        
         






 Print 


 Email 



Lying to protect your card account from ID theft: Why experts discourage it 


Jeremy Simon | 


	September  6, 2011 |	Protecting yourself





            Would you lie to your bank if it meant protecting yourself from identity theft? Although some cardholders indicate they would stretch the truth to keep themselves safe -- telling the bank a credit card was lost or stolen when, in fact, that wasn't true -- lying could actually end up hurting you, experts say.In a recent blog, I described how data breaches have driven my bank to re-issue my credit card twice this year. Readers responded to that blog post with some great comments, detailing their own experiences of compromised credit card information. One comment in particular stood out.A reader named David described how, although his Bank of America debit card was compromised, he never received any notification of a data breach from the bank. "It turns out that BofA had been processing ATM charges against my checking account for several months," David writes. "Upon review, innocent-looking charges were on my statements, such as 'e-Bill Pay $ 39.00.' As I paid credit cards and other bills through this account, and the amounts were relatively small, these transactions did not stand out. But the problem did not stop there. Because my business checking and savings accounts were LINKED (which is required for you to transfer funds from one to the other), BofA KEPT PAYING FROM MY SAVINGS ACCOUNT even when the bogus charges became more obvious." David includes further details about his debit card experience from hell (including what he viewed as a poor response from BofA), then offered the following advice for fellow cardholders:"As a matter of basic security, and even if you have to lie about it for your own protection, it's a good idea to have your card reissued, with a new account number, periodically. It might be the best way to proactively protect yourself, and to a large degree, you are the first line of defense against fraud, and sadly, maybe the ONLY line of defense. Changing the card number will do more to protect your account than any other single thing you can do," David writes.But will lying to your bank really keep you safe? To find out, I asked several experts."I have not heard this recommendation before. I would not advise it," says Edgar Dworsky of consumer education website ConsumerWorld.org. "You will have to lie to get the card reissued because you will have to say the card was lost or stolen or used fraudulently. How many times can you do that with the same issuer?""There is also a maximum liability of only $50 under federal law to start with for fraudulent charges on your card, and many banks advertise zero liability," Dworksy says of credit cards. "So you are not preventing a loss of money by getting a new card number issued." The U.S. Federal Trade Commission also discourages lying to your bank. "We would not recommend that advice. It could cause more problems than it would solve," says Lisa Schifferle, an attorney in the FTC's Division of Privacy and Identity Protection. She explains that since the consumer's credit report may list each new card issuance, that approach could impact the cardholder's credit history. "It may appear to be many accounts instead of one account with the number changing over time," Schifferle says. Since a lengthy credit history can help your credit score, chopping a long-standing account into smaller pieces could hurt you, she suggests.Instead, if you're worried about card security, try the following:• Check your credit reports and account statements. "I think the best way to prevent card fraud is to monitor credit reports regularly," the FTC's Schifferle says. By visiting AnnualCreditReport.com, consumers can request a report from each credit bureau once every 12 months. Look over those reports for any errors or questionable items (such as unrecognized charges or accounts) that could signal ID theft. Debit card holders should check their bank account statements. Contact the bank and credit bureau about anything odd you find. • Get a virtual card number. "Consumers would be smarter to obtain virtual card numbers for use when making an online transaction so an unfamiliar merchant never gets your real number," says ConsumerWorld's Dworsky. Use of temporary card numbers -- issued by your bank -- ensures that even if the number gets stolen, thieves don't have the information for your actual account. Contact your bank to find out if it issues virtual card numbers, since not all of them do. Discover, for example, just this week announced plans to terminate its temporary-number program.  According to experts, honesty may be the best policy. But do you agree? Have you ever misled your bank? If so, what made you lie? Let me know in the comments section below.See related: Despite lingering online fears, virtual credit cards stall







Tags:

bank, breach, card, credit, data, debit, identity, report, theft





Leave a comment







Name: 



Email Address:  
  (will not be displayed)


URL: 





Comments (required)





	Please enter the phrase below (NOT case sensitive):
	

      














About


	They're the pieces of plastic we love, and love to hate. Get the latest news, tips, research and more from the CreditCards.com staff.


Archives

All Blogs


Filter by:
    

Blogger
Blog
Month



This month




	
	September 2011
	

    


S
M
T
W
T
F
S












1


2



3





4



5


6



7



8


9



10





11


12



13



14



15



16



17





18



19



20



21



22



23



24





25



26



27



28



29



30





Tags


heating bills
freeze
shopping
children
debit cards
Building credit
FICO scores
closing an account
credit card
credit cards
fees
fine print
payments
rewards
contactless
students
credit counseling
debt management
debt
health care
credit limit
trends
identity theft
Federal Trade Commission
fraud



Other Voices and Blogs


Alpha Consumer
Blueprint for Financial Prosperity
Compare and Save
Consumerism Commentary
The Consumerist
Merchant Account
Money Under 30
My Two Dollars
The Penny Saved
PFblogs.org
The Simple Dollar
WalletPop


Useful Links


The Federal Reserve Board
The Fair Credit Reporting Act
Complaints involving credit cards


Subscribe to Taking Charge


 Subscribe to Taking Charge via RSS



Or, subscribe via e-mail








FeedBurner




Follow us on Twitter










Secure SSL Technology




Blogs Home


CreditCards.com

Site Security

Privacy Policy



About Us


Overview

Leadership Team

Press Room

Careers



Contact Us


Customer Support

Partnership Opportunities

Business Development

Media Relations



© Copyright 2011 Credit Cards.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use



 













