
Amazon.com Help: Tags 











Help

 
	Close window
      




Tags
What is a tag?
What tags shouldn't I use?How many tags can I add to a product?
Where can I go to see the items I've tagged?
Can everyone see my tags?
How can I edit or remove a tag?


What is a tag?
Think of a tag as a keyword or category label. Tags can both help you find items on the Amazon site as well as provide an easy way for you to "remember" and classify items for later recall.
There are many ways to use tags. Here are some examples: 

Find other items with similar qualities: Are you a photography enthusiast? Find a photography book that you love and tag it with the category "photography book." Click on the "photography book" tag you created and see other items that were tagged similarly. Because people's tags are (by default) visible to others, a great effect of tagging is that you can navigate among items through other people's tags. Add a tag and check out what other items people have tagged as "robot" or "gardening" or "chocolate." Also, you can assign as many tags as you wish to each product, so tag away! 

Organize your collection or items of interest: Tag items you've purchased in the past and organize your collection in any way you wish. Don't like the way Amazon has organized its science fiction or cookbooks? Tag the items you care about with the categories that matter to you. 

Remember items you are considering for purchase: If you are planning to buy a digital camera, you might tag several makes and models so that you can look at them side by side, organized the way you wish. 

Search Tags: You can search for products with a given tag from any product detail page or from any tag page. 

Get recommendations based on items you've tagged: Items you tag will be used as sources from which to make personalized recommendations. Go to Your Store and select from your tags under the Recommendations by Your Tags section. All items you've marked with the tag you select from here will be used as the basis for these recommendations. 

What tags shouldn't I use?
By default your tags are public so everyone can view them. You should not use:

Profane or obscene language, inciting or spiteful tags 
Tags that might: harass, abuse or threaten other members of the community 
Tags that may reveal any personal information about children under age 13 
Tags that promote illegal or immoral conduct
Tags that indicate sentiments by or on behalf of a person or company with a financial interest in the product or a directly competing product
We recommend that you do not use tags which might reveal your phone number or e-mail address.
Please note that all tags  must be in compliance with our Community Guidelines, and any tags that do not comply may be deleted.
How many tags can I add to a product?You can add up to 15 tags per item.
Where can I go to see the items I've tagged?
Click on "Your Amazon.com" through the tab at the top of the site. Next click "Your Profile" in the navigation bar. Scroll down the page and you'll see sections called "Your Tags" and "Products You Tagged." 
Can everyone see my tags?
By default, if you have at least one purchase at Amazon, everyone can see your tags. If you don't have a purchase yet, your tags will not be publicly visible. However, as soon as you buy something and add a new tag, all your tags will become public. Your tags will help others find interesting products, and likewise you can see how other customers have tagged products. As you navigate using tags, you will find more and more interesting products, as collectively organized by other Amazon customers.
To make your tags private: Go to Your Profile page, find the Your Tags area, and click on Manage Your Tags. From there you can select individual tags on the right of the screen and click "Share" to make the tag public or private.
How can I edit or remove a tag?
When you are on a product page, you can click on Edit to edit or remove a tag you created. Or, go to Your Profile page, scroll to the Your Tags area, and click on Manage Your Tags. From there you can edit and delete tags. 
Learn how Tags work and how to create them on Amazon.com.


