Top News, Latest headlines, World News & U.S News - Upi.com



Fire official: Bastrop wildfire could grow
Published: Sept. 8, 2011 at 11:48 PM
AUSTIN, Texas, Sept. 8 (UPI) -- The Bastrop wildfire burning near Austin, Texas, killed two people and destroyed nearly 1,400 homes before officials declared it 30 percent contained.

A fire official said Thursday the blaze -- which had desroyed 1,368 homes -- had "potential for growth," but authorities said they were allowing some of the 5,000 evacuated residents to return to their homes, CNN reported.

Emergency officials said the Bastrop fire had burned 34,000 acres as of Wednesday, the Austin American-Statesman reported Thursday, while the nearby Union Chapel fire was 90 percent contained after burning 900 acres.

Firefighters had hoped to use a converted DC-10 that can carry 12,000 gallons of fire retardant to blanket the flames but officials said they were unable to find a qualified pilot, the American-Statesman said.

Bastrop County Sheriff Perry Pickering said two bodies were found several miles apart, the San Antonio (Texas) Express-News reported.

The Texas Forest Service said the victims were discovered by search crews going through evacuated subdivisions. One of the two victims was identified as city electrician Michael Troy Farr, 48. He was found in the driveway of his home, the American-Statesman said.

Twenty subdivisions remain evacuated and Texas 71 around Bastrop remained closed although a stretch between Smithville and U.S. 77 had been reopened.

CNN reported more emergency crews were being called in to fight the wildfire and elite search crews were deployed to scour the area for victims.

Firefighters have had more success managing other central Texas fires, including those in Steiner Ranch, Spicewood and Leander, the state fire service reported.

Assessment of damages for those fires has already begun aided by officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Texas Forest Service said it has responded to 176 reported fires during the past week -- with 20 new calls coming in Wednesday.

On Wednesday, President Barack Obama called Texas Gov. Rick Perry and pledged the federal government's support. The state has yet to seek a disaster declaration.
© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










