Lose Weight Around the Clock - Healthy Living on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Healthy Living
Saturday, September 10, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: back to schoolsummertime funfall fashion




Lose Weight Around the Clock



partner


by Reader's Digest Magazine, on Thu Sep 1, 2011 11:49am PDT


152 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse








 


6:45 AM: Get Some Early
Exercise
"Studies show that most people who wear pedometers clock up
more steps before lunch compared to after lunch," says
accredited dietitian Kate Di Prima. "Morning exercise raises
your heart rate and metabolism early to give you physical energy
for hours, so from that perspective it also helps burn more
calories throughout the day." Depending on where you live,
there are also generally lower pollution levels in the morning.

7:30 AM: Have Breakfast
"Eating breakfast kick-starts your metabolism -- especially
since we don't eat for around ten hours overnight," says
Di Prima. "Eggs are a high-satiety food and good to begin the
day with."

Keep your carbohydrate intake light at breakfast if you're
trying to lose weight; think one slice of wholegrain toast instead
of two, and include beans or spinach rather than the empty calories
of white bread, jam and butter.

"Aim to get 25 percent of your total day's calories at
breakfast, with five other small meals throughout the day. Think
breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dinner like a pauper --
and two dainty snacks -- like a princess!"

Plus: 10
Energizing Breakfast Ideas

9:00 AM: Skip the Morning Latte
Forgo the large, full-fat latte in favor of a small, skim latte, or
better still, try tea. "This will save a lot of
calories," says naturopath Kevin Griffiths. "It will also
help keep sugar cravings in check, and blood sugar levels on an
even keel."

11:00 AM: Ditch the Juice
Have an apple instead. "A glass of apple juice has the
calories of almost three apples," says Di Prima. Studies also
show that regular fruit juice intake may increase diabetes risk by
50% due to massive sugar hits. "Also, the fiber -- which is
what helps you fill up faster -- is left out of the juice. By
making this one swap you'll save calories every day."

PLUS: 
25 Diet Busting Foods You Should Never Eat

1:00 PM: Love Your Lunch
"Don't eat at your desk. Get outside, go for a walk and be
conscious when you do eat of what's going into your
mouth," says Di Prima. "If you want to cut carbs, have a
stir-fry with extra sprouts and vegies, but ask for fewer noodles.
Eat fish with salad instead of fries, and if you must have bread,
ditch the top of the sandwich and have it open."

3:00 PM: Avoid the Afternoon Sugar Slump
If you don't want to look like the Michelin Man, drink water
and avoid soft drinks. A Harvard study of 6000 people found that
drinking just one soft drink a day (diet or standard) increased the
risk of obesity by 31%. And now there's more evidence that diet
drinks are as bad as normal ones; one university study found that
rats fed artificially sweetened drinks for ten days gained more
weight than those fed sugar-sweetened drinks. Researchers theorize
that when you eat artificial sweeteners, your body prepares for a
large intake of calories. When these fail to materialize, your body
demands food by making you feel hungry. Di Prima agrees. "Soft
drinks are liquid candy. Aim to make water the main drink that
passes your lips, outside of a daily coffee and a glass or two of
skim or low-fat milk. And aim for a maximum three or four glasses
of wine or beer per week. "Beat sugar and salt slumps by
having solid food snacks at your desk, such as low-fat yogurt or
fresh fruit."

PLUS: 
13 Ways to Beat the Afternoon Slump

4:00 PM: Breathe Easier
Although morning exercise suits many people, for athletes looking
for that extra endurance -- or for those who are asthmatic or
easily exhausted -- working out between 4pm and 5pm may be best.
One study of 4800 people by the American College of Chest
Physicians found that lung function peaks (at about 20% higher)
during this period, with midday exercise returning the lowest lung
function.

"The main thing is to exercise at a time that's best for
you," says Rob Daly, an exercise physiologist from the
University of Melbourne. "For people with depression, sunlight
on the eyeballs in the morning is good. For others, afternoon works
better. The main thing is to do it -- not just think about
it."

7:00 PM: Enjoy a Drink
There have been countless studies trumpeting the health benefits of
moderate daily alcohol intake (emphasis on "moderate"),
with wines -- especially the newer organic breeds – linked to
reductions in arterial and cardiovascular diseases. So go ahead,
we're not saints or robots.

But try to aim for low-alcohol (and therefore low-calorie)
varieties, and don't be fooled by the latest low-carb beers;
it's the calories that count, and there's actually little
difference in calories content between standard beer and the
low-carb varieties.

PLUS: 
Ending the Debate: The Best Place to Store Condiments

8:30 PM: Stop Eating
"Unless you are an insulin-dependent diabetic, it's better
not to eat two to three hours before bed," says Di Prima.
"If you are tempted, give your body an 'automatic'
brain signal that eating is over for the night. This might include
washing the dishes, putting away all the leftovers and flossing and
cleaning your teeth thoroughly. If you've done this, you're
less likely to be tempted to put anything but herbal tea past your
lips late at night."

By Jane Washington from HealthSmart
Tell
us your life story for a chance to win $25,000 and be published in
Reader's Digest.

Plus:

20
Secrets Your Waiter Won't Tell You

15 Foods You Should Never Buy Again

13 Things You Didn't Know About Cats

13 Things Your Dentist Wants You to Know

13 Things a Movie Theater Employee Won't Tell You

13 Hotel Secrets You Should Know

10
Things Your Should Never Buy at a Garage Sale

13 Things You Never Knew About Your Weight
11
Secrets of Getting Better Doctor Care

13 Hotel Secrets

13 Things Your Personal Trainer Won't Tell You

Get more insider secrets


Related: lose weight, exercise, eat healthy





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 151 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by Liz  Thu Sep 1, 2011 12:31pm PDT

As much as I hate waking up to exercise in the morning, I love having it over with and not having it hanging over my head the whole day.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by ohmybabyc  Thu Sep 1, 2011 12:43pm PDT

ah it's almost 4pm here.... which reminds me I have to eat lunch! SO believe now more than ever its important to eat throughout the day.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Cameron  Thu Sep 1, 2011 1:14pm PDT

I work out at the crack of dawn every day. It wakes me up and gets me going.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Nikki  Fri Sep 2, 2011 11:45am PDT

"Keep your carbohydrate intake light at breakfast if you're trying to lose weight" --- Disagree. I try to eat my carbs (whole grains) in the morning and midday to give me energy for work and exercise, then by afternoon I try to eat mostly proteins and veggies.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Lita  Fri Sep 2, 2011 8:35pm PDT

I've tried dieting and portion control and most times those work for a while until I lose sight of what i need to do. My weight has a been yo-yo experience. I'm a mother of three girls and  works hard to care for my family, but I seem to forget to take care of me. Therefore, I have decided to incorporate an hour every day to take care of myself. Morning has been the best time to exercise because it gives u alot of energy boost throughtout the day.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by TCBFlame  Fri Sep 2, 2011 10:03pm PDT

I ain't doin' nothin' before 10 am.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Scott T  Sat Sep 3, 2011 6:31am PDT

It took a year and a half, but I lost 130 pounds.  I now feel better, sleep sounder and each day seems brighter than the last.  The only downside is coming up with her monthly alimony payment.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by zodiac  Sat Sep 3, 2011 8:00pm PDT

Not eating after 8:30 doesn't help you loose weight. Your body doesn't know it's night and calories are calories your body burn them no matte what time it is.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Jana  Sat Sep 3, 2011 10:10pm PDT

Love the suggestions! Thank you for sharing it! :)

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Adela  Sun Sep 4, 2011 7:34pm PDT

You have to stop eating after 5 pm in order to lose weight. 8:30?  I also have to eat at my desk, because I use my lunchbreak to get my 30 min daily walk in. I am also walking into the office at 6:45am, after having just dropped my son off at before school care.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 151 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Healthy Living Cheat_Sheet



The best new gym classes across the countryNew study: Men living almost as long as women"How I knew it was time for Prozac"Are you secretly a stress junkie?




Most Popular On Healthy Living


A Jessica Simpson boob job is a great move for all women Tue Sep 6, 2011 12:25pm PDTIs overweight the new normal weight? Thu Sep 8, 2011 8:25am PDTHalf Of Americans Have Mental Health Problems, But Why? Tue Sep 6, 2011 8:43am PDT200 Pounds lighter and "a 180-degree turn for the better!" Wed Sep 7, 2011 2:14pm PDTAre Energy Drinks Turning Guys Into Psychos? Wed Sep 7, 2011 1:37pm PDT


More Most Popular on Healthy Living »

Updates Chatter on Shine…





Weight Loss Tips 3 Tips to Stay Focused
by weightlossmeter.com 6 minutes ago





Weight Management Diet Selection
by effective-weight-loss.com 10 minutes ago





Top 10 Fat Burning Food For Flat Stomach
by tally 13 minutes ago





6 Tricks for Boosting Your Metabolism
by weightlosspills24.com 17 minutes ago





7 Benefits Of Walking Towards Weight Loss
by Ashin 20 minutes ago





Best Food That Burns Belly Fat
by Amlee Sou 36 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



video of the day


Exercises that waste your time



Are you working hard and not seeing any results? The wrong workout could be to blame. Here are the moves to skip and one that will work wonders.




Get started. »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »














Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


‘Anderson’ Premiere: Winehouse Family Claims Drugs Did Not Cause Death

Remembering 9/11: Shine readers share their stories10 NYC Bloggers Remember 9/11: "Tomorrow May Not Come, So I Live for Today"


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


New York Fashion Week: The best of day 2

The 9 Hottest Hair Colors for Fall 2011F.D.A. Says Brazilian Blowout is Dangerous


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


Kathy Griffin's D-list stay-fit and fabulous tips(video)

5 Health Slip-Ups—Remedied25 simple ways to get more steps in your day


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Kate Winslet's Son Already Wondering if He's Gay At Age 7

The Second Day: Teenage filmmaker gives voice to children of 9/11As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?  Reality TV child stars face unchartered territory.


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Woman calls guy she likes 65,000 times. That's a touch much.

A 9/11 Widow Shares Her Tale Of Love From BeyondThe Love Stories Behind Elizabeth Taylor's Jewels


More in Love + Sex »



Food


4 secrets to a perfect casserole

Deep-Fried Pimiento Cheese10 Quick and Easy School-Night Dinners


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


4 healthy, delicious ways to spice up oatmeal for kids

Strap on your baby and boogie!Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














