Billionaire Seeks to Unload a Private Island - Yahoo! Real Estate




New User? RegisterSign InHelpMake Y! Your HomepageYahoo!MailMy Yahoo!NewsFinanceSports   Search       Web Search    






Find a HomeFinance and MortgageNeighborhood InfoGuides and AdviceMy Real EstateFor Professionals 
Saved Searches 
Saved Homes
Manage Alerts






Expert AdviceHow-to GuidesNewsGlossary

















 Search: 

 Homes for Sale 
 New Homes 
 Foreclosures 
 Apartments for Rent 

 in 




 









 Billionaire Seeks to Unload a Private Island 
 

 By Morgan Brennan, Forbes.com 
 September 7, 2011 


 Provided by: 












 

Send

 

Print

 


Share this page

FacebookTwitterMyspaceDeliciousDiggStumbleUpon













Allan Island, named for a Navy hero, is a 292-acre island north of Seattle, WA.Photo: Windmere Real Estate
Try telling billionaires the U.S. housing market is in the dumps. Many of the world’s richest have eagerly been snapping up lavish properties from coast to coast this year. Venture capitalist Yuri Milner broke price records with his $100 million Silicon Valley home purchase, Formula One heiress Petra Ecclestone shelled out $85 million on Los Angeles’ Spelling Manor, and industrialist scion Alexander Rovt rescued Manhattan’s Henry T. Sloane Mansion out of foreclosure for $33 million, to name but a few.  Even Mark Zuckerberg became a homeowner. But while many billionaires have been busily buying up real estate, one is actually selling.
Paul Allen, the Microsoft co-founder that ranks 57th on the Forbes World’s Billionaires list with $13 billion, is offloading his private island.  Allan Island, situated near Anacortes, Wash., is back on the market and at a reduced price, reports the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and Realtor.com.   Allan Island has bounced on and off the sale block since 2005, when its initial price tag was $25 million.  It took a $5.5 million price chop in 2006 before re-emerging with the current $13.5 million asking price.  Windmere Real Estate has the listing. Allen bought the island in 1992, reportedly to build a vacation home, before snatching up the Sperry Peninsula site on nearby Lopez Island in 1996 and abandoning his original plans.
Slideshow: Paul Allen's Private Island

Allan Island, named for a Navy hero (not the billionaire), is an almost entirely undeveloped 292-acre island jutting out of the Pacific Ocean, north of Seattle. It is one of 172 islands comprising the San Juans archipelago. The land boasts one modest house — a caretaker’s cabin fitted with water, septic and generator.  There’s also a 2,400 foot grass airstrip and a boat dock, the only two means by which a person can access the island. Jeep trails wind through the acreage and beaches dapple the coastline. The island does not, however have electricity.  That would cost about $3 million to pipe in, says  Wally Gudgell, the property’s listing agent and a 40-year veteran of private island real estate sales.
The sole island house is a caretaker's log cabin, outfitted with water, septic and generator.Photo: Windmere Real Estate
The uninhabited, mansion-less island may seem like a daunting amount of work for a vacation home, but it comes with a legal option that sweetens the deal: approval for the subdividing and construction of up to 44 five-acre lots. Forty of those potential parcels tout ocean views.  Three working wells capable of supplying all the lots are already in place. It means the island may sell as a commercial investment, for example to a developer hoping to erect an eco-resort. The business possibilities, similar to those offered at Jackson Wyoming’s $175 million ranch, are already luring prospective buyers.
“We’ve had it on and off the market for several years and we’ve had it in escrow several times and for various reasons — some on the buyer side, some on the seller side — we didn’t consummate a transaction,” explains Gudgell.  “We’ve had buyers from every background looking at it and making offers on it.”  He anticipates a deal will stick, especially with the lowered price tag.
The land holds approval for up to 44 subdivisions, most with ocean views.Photo: Windmere Real Estate
Private islands hold a special niche in real estate.  Gudgell says they speak to a smaller pool of buyers and can take much longer to market and sell.  Notable island owners are Johnny Depp, who owns a cay in the Bahamas; Mel Gibson who owns Mago Island in Fiji; and magician David Copperfield, who rents out Musha Cay for tens of thousands a night. Fellow billionaire Richard Branson owns Necker Island in the British Virgin Islands where, as my colleague Clare O’Connor reported, his home unfortunately burned to the ground when lightening caused by Hurricane Irene struck.
Click here to see more photos of Billionaire Paul Allen's Private Island.












 

Send

 

Print

 


Share this page

FacebookTwitterMyspaceDeliciousDiggStumbleUpon












 More from Yahoo! Real Estate: 

   >   Massive Cathedral to be Rebuilt with Cardboard Sep 2, 2011 — Inman News   >   America's Most Expensive Homes for Sale Aug 31, 2011 — Forbes.com   >   Living Large In Ritzy Log Cabins Aug 25, 2011 — CNBC.com   >   Where Celebrities Go to Escape It All Aug 25, 2011 — CNBC.com






   AdChoices        











 Search San Francisco Mortgage Rates 



 Location 



 Loan Amount 



 Loan Purpose 

 Purchase 
 Refinance 
 Home Equity 



 Loan Type 

 Fixed 
 ARM 
 Interest Only 










 California Mortgage Rates 
 Updated Thursday, September 8, 2011 

 Mortgage Type 
 15 Yr Fixed: 
 30 Yr Fixed: 


 Today 
 3.601% 
 4.371% 


 Last Week 
 3.636% 
 4.416%


 Change 
   -0.035%  
   -0.045%  


 Graph 
  graph  
  graph  

 See more rates 






 Most Recent Articles by the Experts 


  

 Paul Bianchina: 
 Handy at Home 



  3 key benefits to gutting a house   Fri, Sep 2, 2011   Concrete pavers offer deck alternative   Fri, Aug 26, 2011 


 See all articles from Paul Bianchina » 




  

 Bill and Kevin Burnett: 
 Sweat Equity 



  Best floor choices if you have pets   Wed, Sep 7, 2011   Old low-flow toilet doesn't save water   Wed, Aug 31, 2011 


 See all articles from Bill and Kevin Burnett » 



 See all Expert Advice 


















 Location 


 City & State or ZIP 


 Listings Type 

 Homes for Sale 
 New Homes 
 Foreclosures 
 Apartments for Rent 





 Price  (optional)  
  to 



 Beds  (optional)  

 Any 
 Studio+ 
 1+ 
 2+ 
 3+ 
 4+ 
 5+ 



 Baths  (optional)  

 Any 
 1+ 
 2+ 
 3+ 
 4+ 











 »   Add Real Estate to Yahoo! Toolbar 
 »   Browse by State or City 


 Homes for Sale  -
     Apartments for Rent  -
     Home Values  -
     Mortgages  -
     Real Estate Agents  -
     Foreclosures  -
     Refinance Mortgage  -
     Home Equity Loans  -     Real Estate Advertising 

 Top Cities: 

Atlanta real estate | Austin real estate | Chicago real estate | Denver real estate | Houston real estate | Las Vegas real estate | Myrtle Beach real estateOrlando real estate | Phoenix real estate | San Antonio real estate | San Diego real estate | San Francisco real estate | Seattle real estate | Tucson real estate

 Top States: 

Arizona | California | Colorado | Florida | Georgia | Hawaii | Illinois | Indiana | Maryland | Massachusetts | Michigan | Minnesota | Missouri | NevadaNew Jersey | New York | North Carolina | Ohio | Oklahoma | Oregon | Pennsylvania | South Carolina | Texas | Tennessee | Utah | Virginia | Washington | Wisconsin

 Related Yahoo! Services: 

Personal Financial Advice - Downloads
 
 Partner with Yahoo! Real Estate 


 Some Yahoo! Real Estate information is provided by our trusted partners. 
 However, Yahoo! does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any third party content. 
 

A REALTOR® is a real estate professional who is a member of the National
Association of REALTORS® Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy - About Our Ads - Terms of Service - Copyright/IP Policy


  | Yahoo!-Zillow Real Estate Network









