Active Users in Twitter Revealed                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops        Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency        Bomb Blast Terror Threat To The U.S But Could...        Amanda Knox Says ‘They Finally Believe’        Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill?        Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee...          6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle        Afghanistan: Obama's Civilian Surge Costs 1.7 billion...        Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist...        Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending...        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion...          September 11th 2001: Day that Changed US Foreign...        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply        MTV Fall Movie Preview Takes A Look At The 'Breaking...        Not Every Publicity Is Good: Lacoste Wants Norway...        more rain expected in sindh        Lee Roy Selmon Remembered              Active Users in Twitter Revealed    New York City :  NY :  USA
|
Sep 09, 2011
 
By Surya Gaire            11 1      
Views: 148
        Twitter officials have revealed the exact data of active numbers of member using twitter from around the world. It has break the silence revealing that twitter has got 100 million active users.  According to the source, out of total active users, 50% login to twitter on daily basis. On the other hand, 40% of the total users who log in do not tweet, they are just happy to read the tweets made by other Twitter users. The site sees some 400 million unique visitors each month. Some 55 million users log on to Twitter from their phone or tablet every month and even more from web browsers too. However, Twitter has a rather large core audience that is highly engaged.  Despite a healthy base of regular users and plenty of notable celebrities, Twitter's not perfect, nor is its work finished. Another struggle is now starting for Twitter, one in which Twitter has to save its clients and grow even more, and who knows maybe they can add another 100 million users in a few years. But to do this Twitter has to solve a few problems and stay away from new ones. Twitter is expecting to add 26 million active users between now and the end of the year. In order to do this twitter has to encourage people to tweet not only read the tweets. Twitter should be unique and should remain away from copying facebook and Google plus.         1 of 14        
Twitter Has 100 Million Active Users
     
Surya Gaire is based in Kathmandu, Kathmandu, Nepal,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (66.7%) Portugal (10.3%) Nepal (5.1%) Pakistan (2.6%) 11 other countries (12.0%)           READ MORE: active users, Twitter, tweet   More News From: New York City :  NY :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 12            Reply  Posted By     madn3wz
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
100 million active users ........... its really amazing.rated up for sharing!
            Reply  Posted By     Ruby1204
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
Very nice reporting. Thanks. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     sweetsana
|
about 19 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharingrated up
            Reply  Posted By     Naureen
|
about 16 hours
ago
  
Very nice reporting. Thanks. Rated up...
            Reply  Posted By     Umaidali
|
about 15 hours
ago
  
nice sharing keep it up :)
            Reply  Posted By     biratg
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
Thank you very much for sharing this Interesting updatereally appreciate that Rated up:)
            Reply  Posted By     luvanil
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this organized report, rated up
            Reply  Posted By     newriter
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
Intelligent writing, rated up for your hard work..
            Reply  Posted By     crown62
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
Surya,thanks for sharing this good report.Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Vicky247
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for the news rated up.
            Reply  Posted By     saleh1966
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing news...Rated up
            Reply  Posted By     muhammedashfaque
|
about 1 hour
ago
  
Well written report... Rated up.
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Twitter with 100 million users has come to stay By: prabirghose      Tweeting is the in thing today and everyone worth his name tweets – it reportedly boasts of a following of over 100 million, as announced by Dick Costolo while speaking at Twitter’s HQs in San Francisco. As per his statement, 40% of the users log in regularly every day and usually just read the matter on the   1 day ago     Social networking diminishes celebs' glamour and mystery, says Pixie ... By: aniskhan26      British singer Pixie Lott has revealed that today's celebrities are no longer 'proper stars' as their lives are open books on social networking sites.The 'Mama Do' hitmaker is a frequent user of Twitter.com and has more than a million 'friends' on Facebook, but she says she wants to scrap the websites as they ruin the glamour and mystery of fame."...  3 days ago     Twitter did not encourage unrest in England, By: kingston23      A study by the British newspaper The Guardian, over 2.5 million messages, ruled that the recent wave of violence that swept several cities in England began following tweets. From the analysis of tweets sent through the social network during the riots, the Guardian concludes today that users used Twitter to share information about what was ...  15 days ago     Facebook, Twitter and RIM will not tolerate censorship even if ... By: saadkhan      Representatives
from Facebook, Twitter and Research In Motion (RIM) will meet this
Thursday with the Minister of Interior of the United Kingdom, Theresa
May, after concerns about how social networks helped to germinate the
discontent in London and became riots and vandalism. However,
representatives of the 'social media' have said they ...  16 days ago     One minute's silence on Facebook and Twitter  By: sharinaz      
They encourage users of social media around the world to show respect for the dead and survivors of terrorist attacks in Oslo and Utøya.
At 18 Friday
The online ceremony is that everyone should avoid the use of social media for one minute starting at 18 Norwegian time.
The promoters have also contacted politicians and famous people ...  18 days ago     President of the United States, Barack Obama joins the network ... By: abdelfattah      .President of the United States, Barack Obama, has joined the network of Foursquare. The
White House issued a statement on their official website announcing
that already has a page on the social network geolocation, from which
you can follow the movements of the president."Now
you can get news from the White House, as the places that Obama ...  24 days ago     Google Plus Announces Its Online Games By: ryangeneral      
As many have already expected, Google Inc.
has announced the availability of online games on Google+. The move
deliberately heightens its competition with Facebook Inc.
Google+ now has 16 games in
its roster. The said games come from the biggest in the business, including
Rovio Mobile Ltd.'s popular Angry Birds game and Zynga Inc.'...  29 days ago     Every fourth active mobile phone user is on Airtel network By: SurajShinde      Airtel is bigger than you thought. Latest survey says that every fourth active mobile connection is Airtel’s. This was revealed by the latest TRAI report of the VLR or visitor location register data which tell you about the total number of active users.Vodafone is on the second spot and it has pushed Reliance Communication on the third spot ...  about 1 month ago     E-mail and searches continue to lead online activities By: Shaziakhan      92 percent of Internet users in the United States uses the network for searching and checking email. According to a recent study by the Pew Internet are the two most common activities. Some 61 percent of them use e-mail daily, while 59 percent daily searches. The study confirms that the two activities that have accompanied the Internet since I ...  about 1 month ago     An Overview Of The Social Networking Applications On The Excellent HTC ... By: cwestley      
The powerful new HTC Sensation is among the most advanced
smartphones available. With the like of a dual-core processor and an 8
megapixel camera, this Android powerhouse appeals to everyone from the
smartphone novice to the technology enthusiast. In this article I will focus on
the social networking features included on this phone.
...  about 1 month ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Twitter boasts of 100 million active users  
The Hindu
 San Francisco, September 9, 2011 AP A Twittere hangs at the offices of Twitter Inc in San Francisco. File photo Micro-blogging site Twitter has long been regarded as the hottest platform for letting people know what you're doing. Now the San...    Twitter: Active user numbers up, more ads on the horizon  
The Christian Science Monitor
 In a press conference at Twitter HQ on Thursday, chief exec Dick Costolo announced that Twitter now attracts approximately 100 million active users users who log in once a month up an astonishing 82 percent from the beginning of this year.    Twitter now has 100 million users worldwide  
Daily News & Analysis
 Micro-blogging website Twitter has announced it has reached a major landmark of 100 million users across the world. Dick Costolo, the social networking website's chief executive, said at Twitter's headquarters in San Francisco that more than half of...    Twitter now has 100 million active users (Reuters)  
Xtra News
 More than 100 million users are "active" and log onto Twitter daily, or about half its registered members, and a growing number are doing so from a plethora of mobile devices, Chief Executive Dick Costolo told reporters on Thursday. Costolo said the...    Twitter now has 100 million active users  
Reuters
 A Twitter page is displayed on a laptop computer in Los Angeles October 13, 2009. More than 100 million users are "active" and log onto Twitter daily, or about half its registered members, and a growing number are doing so from a plethora of mobile...    Twitter to show more ads, still biding time on IPO  
AP Online
 Expect to see more ads flowing through Twitter's stream of tweets in the coming weeks, but don't expect to read anything soon about an IPO from the online messaging service.
Twitter CEO Dick Costolo delivered that message in a Thursday...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Twitter     Twitter  Image Source: allvoices Twitter Has 100 Million Active Users        Twitter users are creating 50 ...    Twitter users are creating 50 ... Image Source: www.afp.com Twitter users are creating 50 million messages of 140 characters or less ...        Twitter currently has over 105 ...    Twitter currently has over 105 ... Image Source: www.afp.com Twitter currently has over 105 million registered users        The Twitter user has attracted ...    The Twitter user has attracted ... Image Source: www.afp.com The Twitter user has attracted 7,500 followers since June        Twitter has over 145 million ...    Twitter has over 145 million ... Image Source: www.afp.com Twitter has over 145 million registered users        More than half of US Internet ...    More than half of US Internet ... Image Source: www.afp.com More than half of US Internet users log in monthly to Facebook      More Related Images    More From New York City          Donald Trump To Build $150M Tower In Makati, Philippines        Images: Mercedes Benz Fashion Week at Pier 59         U.S. Open: Federer dumped in semis Tsonga and Djokovic go for        September Eleventh does not deter          Dow Jones plunges over 300 points         Beware Fraudulent Emails (USA)        (Video) High Fashion Amid High Terror Alert: Fashion Week Opens In NYC        NEW YORK REINFORCED BY THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ATTACK.         Canada Changed on September 11        US Investigates 9/11 Anniversary Threat        Winehouse's dad suspects late singer died of seizure from alcohol detox        Classic Board Games: Then And Now           Well-known 9/11 theories circulating the Internet                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10291594          Cartoons of The Day             10 Years          Towers            Where is Ghadafi          9 11 10th anniversary    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     (In Pictures) 30,000 Fans Gathered at Pacquiao - Marquez III World ... By: marvendumaguit
| about 19 hours ago
      US Corn Prices Surge With News of Stunted Crops By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Obama's Jobs Speech Leaves Much-Needed Defense Spending Cuts to Super ... By: DavaCastillo
| about 20 hours ago
      Will Republicans block Obama's job creation bill? By: itobin53
| about 14 hours ago
      6.4 Earthquake rocks Vancouver Island to Seattle By: StephEaly
| about 11 hours ago
      Video: Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey funeral tribute at Minsk’s hockey ... By: richwebnews
| about 13 hours ago
      Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Nude Rugby in New Zealand between the sexes! By: AmberCornelio
| about 6 hours ago
      Finally Obama Declares Texas A State Of Emergency By: StephEaly
| about 4 hours ago
      Egypt Declares State Of Alert, Israeli Diplomats Flee Cairo amid ... By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Amazing Images: How The September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack Was Seen ... By: solarp
| about 18 hours ago
      Diner-style veggie burger with alfalfa sprouts and avocado; By: HumTum
| about 18 hours ago
      Lady GaGa has a new boyfriend By: solarp
| about 23 hours ago
      Asian Champions Trophy: Pakistan vs India Match Draw and Pakistan ... By: AsimMukhtar789
| 1 day ago
       Indonesia: Militant becomes cartoon hero By: Ranasafdaralikhan
| about 22 hours ago
      Active Users in Twitter Revealed By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Fierce Clashes Breakout In Libya By: Ruby1204
| about 20 hours ago
      Rosie Jones and her Big D’s (calendar) 2012 By: MasalaReporter
| about 15 hours ago
      Friends Forever (Poem) By: Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
      Policemen torture man, snatch money in Sukkur By: Ammaduddin
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 20       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 10       Images: 17       Comments: 12    12       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10291594), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10291594 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10291594 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Active Users in Twitter Revealed” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10291594-active-users-in-twitter-revealed.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         