Top News, Latest headlines, World News & U.S News - Upi.com



UPI NewsTrack TopNews
Published: Sept. 7, 2011 at 12:05 PM
Giant Texas wildfire destroys 700 homes

BASTROP, Texas, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Deadly wildfire raged across parts of drought-stricken Texas Wednesday, having scorched nearly 120,000 acres in the last seven days, officials said.

The Texas Forest Service said on its Web site Wednesday at least 700 homes were destroyed in the past 48 hours and that 251 of the 254 Texas counties reported burn bans.

"I cannot emphasize enough to Texans in the impacted areas the importance of heeding all warnings from local officials, especially evacuation orders, as these fires are mean, swift and highly dangerous," Gov. Rick Perry said.

The largest fire, near Austin, burned across 33,000 acres, killed two people and forced at least 5,000 people to flee, CNN reported.

The Bastrop County Complex fire was about 30 percent contained early Wednesday.

"We ain't happy about it, but we're all alive," said Jerry Hooten of Bastrop, who found his home in ashes and now is living at an RV park outside the danger zone. "Things can be replaced."

The two deaths raise the overall toll from the outbreak of fires to four, officials said.

Firefighters working the Bastrop fire focused on trying to save as many structures as possible, KVUE-TV, Austin, said.

~~~

Toxic dump site threatened by flooding

BRIDGEWATER, N.J., Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Flooding triggered by Hurricane Irene has created a problem for one of the most toxic chemical dump sites in the United States, officials in New Jersey say.

A 400-acre Superfund site in Bridgewater, N.J. remains under 13 feet of water raising serious safety concerns, The (Newark, N.J.) Star-Ledger reported Wednesday. 

The first indication of a problem surfaced last week when balls of tar were spotted beyond the protective barriers enclosing the site.

The tar balls contain benzene, a highly carcinogenic substance, according to Pfizer, which acquired the site two years ago and has been helping to clean it up.

Pfizer spokesman Rick Chambers said only a small amount was found just beyond the barriers.

The Environmental Protection Agency has tested the water upriver and downriver for benzene and is expected to disclose updated test results within days, EPA spokesman Elias Rodriguez said.

"If you breathe in a little bit of benzene, it's not going to kill you," said Jeff Tittel of the New Jersey Sierra Club. He said the effects are more likely to be indirect, posing a danger to fish and wildlife. 

"The chemicals that get out will accumulate in the fish, and we eat the fish," Tittel said.

The Bridgewater site is the former home of the American Cyanamid Co.

~~~

$40M in Social Security paid to deceased

WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- An audit of U.S. Social Security Administration records estimates the agency has paid out more than $40 million to people who are deceased.

CNNMoney.com said the Social Security Office of the Inspector General's estimate is based on a sample tested during a 2008 audit.

Family members or funeral directors usually notify the Social Security Administration of a person's date of death and the information is posted onto the agency's Death Master File, which is a database containing 87 million death records, the report said.

Failure to report the death of family member and continuing to receive payments could result in fraud charges.

In thousands of cases, however, the agency received notice of the recipients death and continued to make erroneous payments. The OIG estimates one in every 200 deaths is entered incorrectly in the Death Master File. Nearly 2,000 deceased beneficiaries were found to have received benefits after the agency was notified of their deaths.

~~~

Second convoy headed to Niger capital

NIAMEY, Niger, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Moammar Gadhafi's security chief is among several former Libyan officials who have arrived in the capital of Niger, officials in Niamey confirmed.

A second convoy said to be carrying dozens of heavily armed Gadhafi loyalists as well as cash and gold has entered Niger and is headed to the capital, the BBC reported Wednesday.

Niger officials said Gadhafi is not believed to be traveling with the convoy.

The United States has called on Niger to arrest senior pro-Gadhafi figures, the New York Times reported.

"We have strongly urged the Nigeran officials to detain those members of the regime who may be subject to prosecution," State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said.

Nuland said they have also been asked to confiscate any weapons that are found and impound state property of the government of Libya, such as money and jewels.

The whereabouts of Gadhafi remain a mystery.

~~~

Ice hockey team members die in plane crash

YAROSLAVL, Russia, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- An airplane carrying the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl ice hockey team crashed during takeoff near Yaroslavl, Russia, Wednesday, killing 36 people, officials said.

The Yak-42 aircraft was flying the team to Minsk, the capital of Belarus, for the start of the new Kontinental Hockey League season, RIA Novosti reported. 

ITAR-Tass reported the plane went down and caught fire shortly after taking off near Yaroslavl, about 160 miles northeast of Moscow. The squad was scheduled to play against Mink HC Dinamo Thursday.

The Yak-42 had 37 people on board, aviation officials said. "Passenger body parts were found in the Volga River, where part of the fuselage fell," a police official told RIA Novosti.

The squad includes players from the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Sweden, ITAR-Tass reported.

The team won the Russian championship in 1997, 2002 and 2003 and placed third in the KHL last year.

Russia's Investigative Committee and the Interstate Aviation Committee both began investigations into the crash.
© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










