Testimonials | McKinley Chiropractic of Austin


Home
Content
RSS
Log in


McKinley Chiropractic of Austin






Search for:



 

Home
Special OffersAbout UsTestimonialsFAQ’sNew Patient FormsNutrition & Detox FormsContact 








Testimonials







33 Testimonials

Add your comment


 








 Susan D. says: 

			August 22, 2011 at 3:19 pm 
I injured my back in 2007. I was unable to hardly walk until I began Chiropractic services from Dr. McKinley. The pain was so excrushiating, I used a walker for assistance to this day I keep the walker nearby but I can walk without it on my better days I not only received medical treatment for my body. As the girls in the office have always made me mentally feel happy to see them.







 William T says: 

			July 27, 2011 at 8:39 pm 
A unique medical practice that integrates these values:
 – People who care – compassion
 – People with skills – competency
 – People with integrity – character







 Steve L says: 

			July 21, 2011 at 10:06 pm 
Dr. McKinley showed me a simple “baseball player” stretch, that when I practice, it almost completely eliminated my lower back pain!







 Megan T says: 

			July 5, 2011 at 9:05 pm 
I have been to several chiropractors over the years and Dr. McKinley and his staff are above and beyond…the best! It isn’t just the chiropractic care that is excellent, but the warm and welcoming staff that make me feel like I am genuinely cared about. The office is warm, welcoming and relaxing. It is the opposite of “clinical”! Dr. McKinley is gentle with his adjustments and has such a warm personality. Once you come here, you will never want to ever go anywhere else.







 Ryan H says: 

			June 30, 2011 at 5:45 pm 
My back was out of alignment making one of my legs slightly longer than the other. I also have a minor case of scoliosis. My visit was miraculous! I came in feeling terrible and left standing straight & walking tall. I was astonished at the results. Since then my alignment has been fixed and I do regular monthly visits because the experience is so wonderful. The staff is the friendliest I’ve run into, always helpful. They take the extra effort to make me feel like I belong. Lots of love comes from this place & these people. I highly recommend  







 Gilbert R says: 

			June 29, 2011 at 6:48 pm 
Dr. McKinley and staff have always been very attentive to my health needs. They always answer all my questions.







 Julie S says: 

			June 28, 2011 at 3:33 pm 
After just 1 treatment I got tremendous relief! I was in a car accident 3 months ago and unable to turn my head completely and quickly, but on my way home, I was able to freely check the car’s blindspots! I also noticed improvement in my eyesight immediately after the treatment.
I came in relatively unaware of what would be done but I had several recommendations to get help from Dr. McKinley. I was tired of constant whiplash pain and evidently those electrodes and heating pads do wonders!
Its just the beginning, but it’s obviously the best place to start   To top it off, all their staff is so friendly and compassionate. A thousand blessings to your business, in Jesus’ name!







 Amy O says: 

			June 27, 2011 at 3:19 pm 
I came to Dr. McKinley seeking treatment for chronic neck pain. I was diagnosed with a whiplash injury that occurred several years ago. I have been undergoing treatment twice a week for the last several weeks. I have noticed a definite improvement. I no longer have neck pain or stiffness on a daily basis. Dr. McKinley was highly recommended to me by two of his long-time patients. He and his entire staff have been so friendly. I will also recommend him to other people I know!







 Julia T says: 

			June 10, 2011 at 5:07 pm 
The staff & Dr. McKinley have been fantastic! They are all thoughtful & caring. When I came into the office I was in extreme pain & discomfort & the team’s healing hands & caring hearts have brought me back to normal!
I also recently started the hhCG weight loss program & have experienced great success thus far. Mattie has been wonderful & helpful as I made the transition to the 500 calorie diet. My husband & I really enjoyed our support group meeting! It was nice to meet Liz & Bonnie & to learn from their experiences & successes.
Thank you!







 Phillip S says: 

			April 13, 2011 at 9:10 pm 
I’m in the middle of treatment after having knee pains to the point of not walking. I got in a car accident and started getting treatment. Now after 2 weeks, I can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel! There are days I can actually walk and I even want to jump!







 Bert L says: 

			March 29, 2011 at 4:15 pm 
First I want to emphasize what a pleasant & enjoyable experience it has been for me working with Dr. McKinley and his entire staff. They are all very cheerful & skilled. My problem was an inflamed L5 nerve – extreme pain. When I first started spinal decompression, I struggled to walk with a walker. Today (2 months later), I am pain-free, walking without any aid. My foot has still not fully regained function, but physical therapy is helping. I heartily  recommend McKinley Chiropractic and their spinal decompression therapy.







 Ron P says: 

			February 11, 2011 at 5:13 pm 
Dr. McKinley and his staff are true professionals and your well-being is always priority from day one. All the staff is nice, friendly and ensure that you’re comfortable during each visit. I had come in with lower back pain and ended up finding out that I had a herniated disc. Dr. McKinley gave me great guidance and helped rehab my back back to health without surgery, with regular adjustments and the DTS machine. Now I am back to a sport and exercise regimen. I refer McKinley Chiropractic to everyone. Thank you!







 Chris K says: 

			January 27, 2011 at 6:09 pm 
I felt even better today. My back feels better than I can’t remember when. No pain.







 Brooke C says: 

			January 5, 2011 at 4:49 pm 
Since I have been seeing Dr. McKinley, I have been getting electrotherapy & adjustments. The office staff has always been very helpful & considerate to my needs. Throughout my treatment, Dr. McKinley has talked with me to make sure I knew what was going on which definitely helps to put my mind at ease. I can honestly attest that because of treatment with Dr. McKinley my migraines have disappeared completely. Not only is that burden off my shoulders, but a tremendous physical & mental relief as well.







 Judy says: 

			October 4, 2010 at 4:37 pm 
I drive 71.2 miles from Lexington, TX to come see Dr. McKinley.  There is no better doctor!  I walk in in pain and walk out pain free.  It’s so worth it!







 Andrew W. says: 

			April 26, 2010 at 5:16 pm 
I started seeing Dr. McKinley and staff a few months ago for lower back pain. Let me say the good doctor and his staff have taken care of me better than any other doctor I have ever seen. I’m back to my old self again, I can lift heavy objects without fear of pain, I’m back to riding my bike and working in the yard. I was so impressed with Dr. McKinley that on my last visit I set up an appointment for my wife to see him. He and his staff are truly amazing!







 Charis E. says: 

			April 8, 2010 at 6:36 pm 
I have seen 4 other Chiropractors in the past 15 years, and Dr. McKinley’s patience, expertise, and bed side manner far surpass them all. I have been a patient of Dr. McKinley for about 4 years for various chiropractice concerns ranging from injuries and neurological issues, to pregnancy. During my pregnancy, he saw me frequently to keep my body in alignment during such a huge change physically. I can’t think of ANY other chiropractor that I would trust to adjust me during pregnancy, and I had no fears or concerns that he didn’t have mine and my baby’s health, safety, and well being in mind at all times. My husband and I also participated in a full body wellness cleanse that Dr. McKinley guided us through, and the health benefits were incredible. He is a very gifted doctor, and his staff is just awesome. They are always attentive and kind. Thank you McKinley Chiropractic! You guys are the best!!







 Mike G. says: 

			March 30, 2010 at 8:37 pm 
Wow! I had just recently begun to lift weights and play basketball again at the YMCA in order to get a little more fit. When my lower back started to give me trouble. Dr. McKinley came very highly recommended by several people from my church. From my very first office visit I was feeling much much better. I no longer needed Ibuprofen to recover from basketball. And not only was Dr. McKinley fantastic but his staff were very friendly, helpful and informative. I’ve got to be honest that I’ve never been a big fan of chiropractic because of my previous experiences in other states, where I’ve lived, but this was amazingly different! I’m pain-free as I write this! Thanks Dr. McKinley & team!
- Mike Gould







 Bryan C. says: 

			March 30, 2010 at 4:38 pm 
My wife and I have been very blessed by Dr. McKinley and his staff. He has helped us with our health and attitude about our health in a major way. You can tell that this is a ministry not a job to him. I believe that he was chosen for this profession. Dr. McKinley really cares about people, you can tell when you meet him and even more so after you have come to know him. His entire staff is a blessing to be around. They are all a family of caring people. They are real and that makes each visit special. When speaking with them in person or on the telephone they always make you feel like part of the family. My wife and I look forward to each visit. It is a wonderful thing to be painless. We would recommend Dr. McKinley and his staff to everyone.







 Judy V. says: 

			February 16, 2010 at 5:37 pm 
Dr. McKinley is the absolute best doctor I have ever been blessed to see. He always knows what hurts even if you forget to tell him.







 Tami H. says: 

			February 5, 2010 at 3:49 pm 
I’ve been coming to Dr. McKinley for only a month, and my quality of life has already significantly changed for the better!  I suffer with migraines, and have lived with the idea that I was just going to have to “grin and bear it” for the rest of my life.  I feel this way no longer!  Dr. McKinley has already so greatly relieved my head and neck tension that the frequency and severity of my headaches has already reduced!  Dr. McKinley offers not only a great service, but a genuine care and compassion for  my pain and needs.
What a gift!  God has already used the McKinley’s to be a huge blessing in my life.  I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend Dr. McKinley to anyone who deals with headaches.  Life CAN BE MORE BEARABLE!







 Patient says: 

			December 7, 2009 at 4:06 pm 
I have been a patient of Dr McKinley’s for several years.  I recently completed the detox/cleanse program and was amazed at the results!  I had expected it to be difficult but instead found it to be relatively easy.  The support I received from the doctor and the office during the cleanse also made it easier and was such a blessing.  A number of health problems have improved or resolved themselves.  I feel incredible and have so much energy!  I would recommend this program to anyone.







 Katelynn O. says: 

			November 16, 2009 at 2:45 pm 
I was in a car accident and after the wreck my back and shoulder were both hurting me pretty badly.  My dad asked me to go see Dr. McKinley.  The staff was extremely nice and they made me feel so comfortable!  They all seriously care about  what’s happening in your life.  Dr. McKinley is awesome! He cares about your pain and respects your wishes and how you feel about the treatment you’re getting. Every time I leave there, I leave 100% happy and feeling so much better than when I walked through the door.







 Patient says: 

			November 12, 2009 at 8:34 pm 
Dr. McKinley operates a very professional clinic with great family atmosphere.I greatly appreciate the many great specials that they offer, it makes it quite affordable , and in today’s economy that’s a must. Their staff is friendly and Dr. McKinley is very attentive to the individual needs and concerns of his patients.







 Laura Porter says: 

			October 23, 2009 at 8:35 pm 
I sit in an office all day, and when I’m not there I’m in planes, cars and conferences. My back and spine experience a lot of pressure with this stop & go lifestyle. Dr. McKinley helps relieve the compression in my lower spine and aligns my hips so that I have straight legs to play and work! He’s very gentle with his adjustments – which helps me to feel comfortable and relaxed. Plus, his office staff is ALWAYS helpful and friendly. Thanks guys!!







 Melody Bender says: 

			October 16, 2009 at 8:34 pm 
I came to see Dr. McKinley after I had injured my back and was nearly in tears. I was immediately taken into their office like a family member and absolutely taken care of. After just one adjustment the pain was nearly completely gone, I felt 95% better! The McKinelys truly do have a ministry in their chiropractic office and I am so thankful for them!







 Patient says: 

			September 25, 2009 at 8:35 pm 
Dr. McKinley is very thorough with his examinations.He is a very caring doctor.Always concerned about your well being.Remembers his patients.I would recommend him to everyone.Most important, he is not a pushy chiropractor. Honest and professional.







 Steve L. says: 

			September 15, 2009 at 8:34 pm 
First, Dr. McKinley’s sweet spirit creates an environment of warmth, genuine concern and care. Second, he’s clearly well educate in chiropractic medicine and is often called to provide expert testimony at the capital. Finally, his treatment of my lower back has given me the freedom to continue to wake board, wake surf, rock climb and generally live life to the fullest with my teenage sons and daughters!







 Josh R. says: 

			September 15, 2009 at 8:09 pm 
Over the years I have been to a couple of different doctors varying from M.D. to therapy. Dr. McKinely has been a blessing to me and my care; going the extra mile in every manner. His staff and himself put you first before anything else and they know what they are doing. I have no need to look further for medical care.







 Heather N. says: 

			April 29, 2009 at 1:38 pm 
I have been coming to Dr. McKinley’s office for about 3 months and he has helped me so much. They are very flexible and are able to get me in on my lunch break, also the Dr. and his staff are very friendly and helpful. I recommend this office to my friends.







 Emily S. says: 

			April 28, 2009 at 9:24 am 
I love my appointments with Dr. McKinley! He is so calming and gentle and very knowledgeable. He knew I had an old whiplash injury just by looking at my x-rays. His treatments are always very specific to my needs and I always feel so much better after seeing him. The office is comfortable and the staff is so friendly and efficient. Always a pleasure!







 Hugh S. says: 

			April 26, 2009 at 5:42 pm 
My wife, three sons and I have been very blessed to receive various treatments from the McKinley clinic. It has been a positive experience from every angle: healing, pain relief, comfort, peace & joy. The atmosphere and reception sets the healing process in motion. Everything is clean, effective, and pleasant to work with. Its hard to imagine any place that could possibly more conducive to dealing with the hardships and stresses that life deals each of us. Great stuff!







 Pam I. says: 

			July 13, 2008 at 2:48 pm 
I am an independent video producer and after lifting heavy video equipment, I strained my back. I was in such pain that I could barely walk – let alone work on my projects. A close friend of mine recommended Dr. McKinley. After several sessions of therapy and adjustments (2x a week for 3 weeks), I feel wonderful again. Dr. McKinley is very gentle and thorough in his procedures and understanding of my level of pain.
I feel I have my life back again thanks to Dr. McKinley and his incredible staff!










Leave a Testimonial

Click here to cancel reply.




Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website















 $49 First Visit Special!
Read More - Click Here!

512-326-1400 We are located in South Central Austin:
South Lamar & 360/Ben White in Brodie Oaks Plaza
(Next to Toys-R-Us)

 Dr. Don McKinley
4029 S. Capital of TX Hwy #100
Austin, TX 78704
Phone: 512-326-1400
Fax: 512-326-1463

Follow Us!
 
Links

Austin Chiropractor
Our Blog
Special Offers
Testimonials



-


  		...		




Pages
Special Offers

About Us
Testimonials
FAQ’s
New Patient Forms
Nutrition & Detox Forms
Contact




Meta

Log in



  
This WordPress BlogSite proudly built and modified by Webvega; an Austin Interactive Agency.





Back to Top


	© 2011 McKinley Chiropractic of Austin  · Proudly powered by  WordPress
&
Green Park 2
  by  Cordobo.


  Valid XHTML 1.0 Transitional | Valid CSS 3  



