Helping Texas Wildfire Victims







Home
Buying My Home

Search for My Home
GoodLife Team Featured Properties

All Austin Properties
Downtown Austin Towers Map
East Austin Condos Map
South Austin Condos Map
Helpful Buyer Links
Buyer Resources
GoodLife on the Go


GoodLife Team Stimulus Package
Austin’s GoodLife


Selling My Home

Selling My Home
What’s My Home Worth?
Only One Reason
Selling Homes Faster
Seller Resources
Appealing Your Property Taxes


Good Hoods

East Austin Condos
Riverside Grove Townhomes
Cherrywood & French Place
Lake Pointe
Downtown Austin Towers Map
East Austin Condo Map
South Austin Condos Map


Austin Schools

Austin Schools
Austin ISD
Del Valle ISD
Dripping Springs ISD
Eanes ISD
Georgetown ISD
Hays Consolidated ISD
Lago Vista ISD
Lake Travis ISD
Leander ISD
Manor ISD
Pflugerville ISD
Round Rock ISD


Meet the Team

About the GoodLife
Meet the Team
Testimonials
Accomplishments


Blog
Contact Us




Helping Texas Wildfire Victims


 


Helping Texas Wildfire Victims

If you would like to help the victims of the Texas Wildfires, The GoodLife Team can help you help them. We are accepting contributions and will purchase the much needed water, food, clothes and toiletries on your behalf and deliver them to the appropriate donation spots*.
Contributions can be sent to:
The GoodLife Foundation
1114 E. Cesar Chavez
Austin, TX 78702
If you live in Central Texas, we are also accepting donations that we will ensure get to those in need. Feel free to drop them by our office.
Current News About the Fires: 
Sept. 8th @ 8:45 am: “Wildfires the began Sunday in Bastrop have destroyed 1,386 homes.” NPR News
Sept 8th @ 8:50 am: “The larger Bastrop fires was 30% contained as of Wednesday, officials said. That fired, dubbed the Complex fire, has burned 34,000 acres Wednesday.” Austin American Statesman
Sept 8th @ 8:50 am: “The Steiner Ranch fire, which destroyed 24 homes and damaged 30 others, was 75% percent contained as of late Wednesday.” Austin American Statesman
Sept 7th @ 11:26 pm: “Officials announced today that the Spicewood Fire is now 100% contained. The blaze destroyed 28 homes, while fire crews saved 92 others.” Austin.YNN.com


*Unfortunately we are not set up for ‘charitable donations’ and cannot provide you with any tax deductible documentation. This is a grass roots response to this tragedy.








		©2010 - krisstina wise & the goodlife team info@goodlifeteam.com
phone: 512.892-WISE (9473)
privacy policy | Goodlife Team Austin Property Blog | Login





Podcast Powered by podPress (v8.8)




