Mile High Mamas - powered by FeedBurner
&



Mile High Mamas

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Mile High Mamas delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Helping Kids Cope with 9/11 and a Commemorative Concert


Posted: Sun, 11 Sep 2011 13:00:39 +0000
Parents march through DIA with their children in tow. They cue up in line to head through security, fiddling with bags, commanding their kids to take off shoes and even offer up stuffed animals for examination.
That’s his reality, he’s now 10 years old so for him it’s normal … to be more protected,” said one dad.
Today’s anniversary of the attacks of 9/11 is in the background.
Be sure to watch Mama Drama Editor Lisa Vratny-Smith on CBS4 Denver talking about how to help kids cope with 9/11.

Don’t miss “Colorado Remembers 9/11 – 10th Anniversary Commemorative Concert” — Featuring the Beach Boys and Colorado Symphony, 1 p.m., Civic Center Park, 100 W. 14th Ave. Parkway, Denver. The free event will feature Governor John Hickenlooper and Mayor Michael Hancock, military fly over, taps and a firing salute. www.thecell.org.
Be sure to read The Denver Post’s in-depth article A decade after 9/11, solemn reflection, unshaken resolve.




Highlands Ranch dad questions library policy that lets kids check out R-rated DVDs


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 13:00:37 +0000
When Robert Martinich’s 14-year-old son brought home the R-rated movie “Bruno” home from the library this spring, the Highlands Ranch dentist was upset.
Since then, he has been challenging the Douglas County Libraries’ policy of allowing minors to rent R-rated DVDs. Currently, the library system does not restrict what a child can check out unless a parent signs a form authorizing the restrictions. He has attended board meetings and spoken to board members, including director Jamie LaRue, who told Martinich the library follows the American Library Association​’s guidelines.
Read the rest of this report at YourHub/HiglandsRanch.com.




9 Tech Accessories Busy Parents Need


Posted: Sat, 10 Sep 2011 07:00:10 +0000
If you’re a busy parent who relies on technology to help you cope with crazy schedules, communication, entertainment and everything between, you’re probably always on the lookout for great accessories that compliment your phone or computer of choice. I know I have a weakness for a good gadget or accessory and I know I’m not only in that tendency. Recently I’ve acquired and tested several accessories that will be a helpful addition for any tech-savvy parent. They range from helpful to stylish. Here’s a run down of my recent favorite picks.
Tough n Tiny usb drive by Verbatim 2 – 32 gb ($9.75 – $97.50) is a wonderfully durable way to store important documents and files you need on the go. This truly tough piece of hardware can survive liquid, dirt and hard handling. It comes with a key chain attachment and can withstand all the scratching your keys throw its way. This usb is perfect for parents with clumsy, messy kids.
 
Cushi Soft Foam Pad by id America (iPhone $11.99) is a stylish way to protect the iPhone. Don’t like bulky cases? Still want a way to cushion the front and back of your beautiful iPhone? This is a complaint I hear from mommies who need to use their iPhone for work and feel self conscious pulling out their expensive iDevice only to reveal that it’s covered with a bulky, military grade case (to keep the kids from breaking it). The Cushi Soft Foam Pad not only looks good but also goes on easily and comes with small, round cushions and a screen protector for the front. Perfect for the iPhone that stays out of little hands.
iGuy by Speck (iPad 1 & 2 $39.95) is hands down the best kid-friendly iPad case I have come across. We have thoroughly tested it for about a month now and it’s still going strong. Not only does it turn the iPad into a cute little character, but it provides a very durable rubber-foam padding and is compatible with both the iPhone 1 and 2. The arms provide a great handle for kids to hold and it’s strong enough to withstand falls and fits. It does take some finagling to get the iPad into it, but that’s a good thing. My kids have figured out how to get every other iPad case off, but not the iGuy. It has outsmarted them and kept them from destroying our wonderful tablet (again).
RoadTrip HandsFree by Griffin (iPhone/iPod Touch $99.99) makes using your phone while traveling a breeze. The device plugs into any vehicle’s lighter outlet and extends upward. Adjust the angle to fit your needs and pivot it as each situation dictates. It acts as a phone charger, FM transmitter, and a handsfree way to talk on the phone and view GPS directions. Easily  skip, pause and replay songs in your playlist from controls directly from the mount. This is a great way to listen to playlists on the go and view GPS apps without looking down and taking your eyes off the road. A must-have for iPhone junkies who use their phone for multiple tasks while driving – stay safe and keep your eyes on the road with Griffin’s RoadTrip HandsFree.
 
Candyshell Card by Speck ($39.95) is the minimalist’s best friend. This is a great gift accessory for dads who hate filling their pockets with a million bulky objects. This smartphone case provides a special compartment for up to three cards or even some cash to be store right within the case. Headed for a night out and just want to worry about one thing to keep track of? The Candyshell Card case is perfect for such an occasion.
 
The Survivor by Griffin ($49.99) is a military grade, protective case for smartphone users. Do a lot of hiking in the high country? Have little ones that are relentless with your phone? This is great, protective option as far as keeping your from from shattering during a tragic fall. The case consists of a hard, inner plastic shell and an outer silicone casing that offer military-grade protection. The Survivor keeps any parent’s smartphone nightmare from coming true.
 
MountMe Freedom iPad Mounting Bracket by MountMe ($49.99) makes mounting the iPad on just about anything a reality. This brilliant accessory comes with a case that clips onto the iPad and attaches to a rotating piece. Apply suction cups or a strap (depending on the mounting situation). Or, if there’s a spot on the wall parents want to designate for the iPad to be mounted on regularly, there’s also an option to attach the MountMe to screws on the wall. Watch movies in the car, mount the iPad at an angle on a desk, or even just place it on your lap at an angle. We fell in love with this mounting system and I readily recommend it to any family who has the need to mount their tablet.
Woogie Case by Griffin ($19.99) is a wonderfully cuddly case that protects the iPhone from being shattered in the hands of little ones. Simply insert the iPhone into the center of the star-shaped stuffed animal and insert the headphone jack. The Woogie isn’t just a case, but also serve as an enhanced speaker system. The pillow is firm and weighted and the perfect little pal for kids. The clear plastic cover that goes over the front could be a bit snugger and it isn’t hard for kids to get the phone out, but other than these issues, it’s the perfect solution. Parents can get creative and figure out ways to keep the phone in the pillow.
Powerskin for most smartphones ($40) is a great back up battery option for folks who must be away from conventional chargers for hours at a time. Teachers and working parents who need a backup battery at a moments notice will find the Powerskin a wonderfully convenient option for a battery boost. The Powerskin is available for most of the popular smartphones. It also doubles as a protective case, so you really can’t go wrong with this one!
 
Did I miss your favorite tech accessory? I’d love to hear your current favorites in the comments below!
Hannah is an educator, mom to three wonderful children ages 3 and younger and proud wife of an Operation Iraqi Freedom Veteran. She is the founder of MyAppinions.com and the HR and Editorial Manager at AppTudes.com. My Appinions is a site where she posts reviews of iOS apps of all kinds but with a heavy emphasis on ones with educational and practical value.




Top Ten Green Boutiques for Your Shopping


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:00:57 +0000
As eco boutiques flourish, catering to style- and environment-conscious shoppers, young moms and their families, the movement has grown to include another element: fair-trade goods. The category includes jewelry, clothing, toys and other items made by people living in impoverished areas all over the world who are using the money they earn to improve their standard of living. Here’s a look at some places to shop eco-smart.
Ten green boutiques
1. Green Logic
This Fort Collins store, a veteran in the eco-boutique business, was opened five years ago by the husband-wife team of Colleen Barricklow and Jason Cohencious. Located between Old Town and the New Belgium Brewery, they cater to students, tourists and residents.
Cohencious says they pride themselves on carrying, “a little of everything.” Clothing in organic cotton, bamboo and soy, baby toys and games, fair trade apparel, bedding, bath, kitchen and organic-gardening products, small solar-powered items and decorative items like picture frames and clocks made out of computer motherboards. For students they sell backpacks, lunch bags and water bottles made from recycled materials, as well as paper products and school supplies. 261 Linden St., Fort Collins. 970-484-1740; green-logic.net
2. Topo Ranch
Any retailer that has regular first-Friday evening musical performances and beer is going to be popular, and this Boulder store is no exception. Topo Ranch makes soft, comfortable organic cotton T-shirts and hoodies, along with other men’s, women’s and kids’ styles. It caters to wholesale clients and, through its retail store, also sells denim, shoes and accessories.
As for entertainment, next up on May 6, from 5 to 8 p.m., listen to Lumineers from Brooklyn and see the art of Kristin FitzGerrell’s Studio 22. To get updates about music events, send a request to boulder@toporanch.com. 1505 Pearl St., Suite 103, Boulder. 303-440-4242, toporanch.com
3. Lovely
It has been three years since Emilie Oliver and Hallie Wastell opened Lovely in Arvada’s Olde Town shopping district. They sell on-trend clothing in earth-friendly fabrics such as organic cotton, silk and hemp produced with minimal environmental impact.
Among the lines they carry are Big Star Jeans made in Los Angeles using an eco-friendly process, Synergy and LAmade tops and dresses in organic fabrics, and fair trade clothing made in Nepal. Check the website and blog for info on sales and events. 7405 Grandview Ave., Olde Town Arvada. 720-379-5739, lovelyboutique.net
4. EcoPOLITAN
Originally founded by Robin Morris as Modern Mommy Gear, the store shifted focus in 2010 to specialize in eco-friendly gear for the whole family. It carries green goods for every member of the house, from diapers for baby and natural skin-care products for Mom to accessories for the family pets. Products range from being highly functional, such as household cleaning supplies and reusable shopping bags, to fun and whimsical. 437B S. Wadsworth Blvd., Lakewood. 303-989-2229, eco-politan.com
5. Unity Boutique
Unity was Denver’s first fashion boutique offering clothing made in America from environmentally sustainable fabrics when it opened in a Victorian house in the Old South Pearl Street business district more than four years ago. Owner Megan Smith carries men’s and women’s clothing and denim from such labels as Reuse and LAmade. For spring there are lots of dresses and separates for women, and tanks and T-shirts for men. Unity also is known for its footwear, selling TOMS for men, women and children, and new this season are Freewaters sandals for men and women. Women’s jewelry, handbags and other accessories are also a draw. 1455 S. Pearl St., 720-570-5076; unityboutique.com.
6. Ten Thousand Villages
While the fair-trade company has close to 400 stores, Ten Thousand Villages locations feel like part of the neighborhood — in this case, Cherry Creek North, Denver; and Old Town, Fort Collins. That might be because the businesses are nonprofit and staffed with the help of dozens of volunteers who guide customers among the handmade gifts, jewelry, home decor, art and sculpture made by artisans in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East. The organization works with artisans in 38 countries, plus the Denver store sells local goods from the Women’s Bean Project and cards made by women at The Gathering Place shelter.
Denver store manager Judy Nafziger says prices range from $2 to $475, with a lot of items in the $10 to $50 range. Find items you like, and they’ll create a gift registry for you. 2626 E. Third Ave., 303-316-8773. Denver.tenthousandvillages.com.; and 113 Linden St., Old Town Square, Fort Collins. 970-224-9501, fortcollins.tenthousandvillages.com
7. Omerica Organic
Ryan Lorenz started this venture selling high quality wood jewelry and accessories and has built a successful retail and wholesale business.
Omerica uses exotic hardwoods that are sustainably grown and harvested in creating its ear lobe plugs, buckles, pendants and dog tags. Many of the hand-finished designs have inlays.
While the business is mostly wholesale, it also has a retail operation on site. 3060 Larimer St., 877-663-7422; omericaorganic.com
8. Talulah Jones
Owner Robin Lohre is the first to admit that her store isn’t 100 percent “green,” but in everything from her shopping bags made of recycled paper and the light bulbs that illuminate the space to the cleaning products that keep it sparkling, she’s working at it. She takes pride in the fact that the store was certified green three years ago through the ReDirect Guide. She sells fair trade clothing, children’s books and Plan Toys USA, which are made from kiln-dried wood, as well as stationary, jewelry and home and gift items. 1122 E. 17th Ave. (at Park Avenue), 303-832-1230, talulahonline .com
9. The Giggling Green Bean
New moms can shop here for everything from infant and toddler clothing in such fabrics as organic cotton or bamboo, to toys made of wood or recycled plastic. Baby carriers, bottles, bibs and bowls are other popular items, says assistant manager Jenna Hoskinson, who cites being able to bring her almost 1-year-old daughter to work as just one of the perks of her job.
Amy Mann started the business in 2007 after having trouble finding a place to buy cloth diapers. She opened a business in her home and then expanded to open The Giggling Green Bean two years ago, offering a wider assortment of baby goods.
GGB also offer classes on breast feeding and other topics of interest to parents and new moms. 3929 Tennyson St., 720-988-3725; the-giggling-green-bean.com
10. Naturally Loved
Former schoolteacher Alyson Warren made the switch from classroom to retailing after having a baby. For both economic and an ecological reasons, she decided to use cloth diapers, make her own baby food and raise her daughter Eva as naturally as possible. Warren soon found herself teaching other new moms the same tricks and, last August, opened a store selling organic clothing for infants, children and moms-to-be; wooden toys; stuffed animals; blankets; and gear for nursing and making baby food. With a commitment to community, her store hosts classes in everything from making green cleaning supplies to yoga and infant massage. 7349 E. 29th Ave., 303-955-6207; naturallylovedbaby .com
-Suzanne Brown




How to help your child make friends and fit in


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 13:00:36 +0000
An interview with Dr. Jeffrey I. Dolgan, Senior Psychologist at Children’s Hospital Colorado
Q: How can parents help their children choose good friends?
A: Parents need to find out who is in their child’s peer group. You can get a good idea about the other kids by making connections with their families. I suggest hosting something to get everyone together, like a back-to-school BBQ or a soccer team party.
Q: How can parents discourage “mean girl” or “mean boy” behavior?
A: Being a mean girl or mean boy has to do with set-ups. Kids will say, “You’re our best friend,” then turn around and talk about the kid behind his or her back. I think parents know if their child has it in them to act mean or not. It has nothing to do with popularity — it’s about finding good friends.
Q: How do you encourage a child to have positive relationships with their peers?
A: It starts at home. You learn how to share at home. You learn how to talk to others at home. Do your children have positive relationships with their siblings? Do they have positive relationships with you? That’s where it all begins.
Q: How should parents talk to their children about schools of mixed economic status?
A: Parents should be upfront and say, “Your school has some rich kids and some poor kids.” Then, talk to your child about what that means or doesn’t mean. Make sure, as a parent, you practice what you preach. Don’t tell your child to make friends with everyone and then only hang out with certain people yourself. Get to know the parents of the other kids, and talk to each other. Ways to teach kids about tolerance 
Q: Is back-to-school shopping an opportunity to talk to kids about consumerism?
A: Yes. I recommend saying something like, “This is what we’re going to buy today. We have money for x, y and z, and if you want something else, you’ll have to give something up.” Set expectations ahead of time, then set a budget and stick to it – even though it can be very, very hard.
Q: Should I support my kid wanting to be “cool?”
A: Almost all kids want to be cool, and parents should encourage their child to experiment and develop his or her own style. The way some kids express themselves may look a little ridiculous, but the “cool” thing is them being themselves. Kids who express themselves freely often become confident and empowered adults.
Q: What about the kids who can’t afford the same things as the other kids?
A: All kids can find ways to be very cool! There are lots of thrift stores and discount stores with unique stuff that kids can use to express themselves. 
Q: What about electronics – should I give in to the iPod, iPad and iPhone craze?
A: Go over the school rules about having electronics in class. Talk to your kids about when it’s okay to have them on and off and how to take good care of them. If kids use electronics responsibly, I think it’s okay for them to have them.

Additional tips to help your child cope with “cliques” at school 




You Live Where?  Raising a Small Family in Downtown Denver


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 13:00:56 +0000
Almost exactly one year ago, my family and I relocated from New York City to Downtown Denver.  While we were raised in the mountains of Colorado, we felt this would ease the transition for us as well as adhere to some of our lifestyle values. It made sense to us, but most of our Colorado friends and family were surprised by the choice.  Downtown Denver, unlike New York City, is not known for housing many families with young children.  In fact, in our condo complex, we are the only unit of eighty with small children. 
Here were some of our reasons for the move: we were accustomed to small spaces (in fact, we went from 680 square feet to 1300 – a mansion!), we like to be out and about, we are a one-car family, and therefore like public transportation, and most importantly, we wanted nothing to do with a commute.  With two children, ages 3 years and 6 weeks (when we moved), my husband and I both wanted him home as fast as possible after his workday was done.  To me it is torture to think of all the time he is wasting in traffic when he could be home giving the kids a bath!  And since I presently work from home, it made sense to live where his job is, two block in fact.  (Let me tell you how convenient this is when you lock yourself out of your home!)
Of course it has its downsides too.  No backyard (and with two boys, that is missed), smaller space, communal laundry, and a bit more effort to get some fresh air. The greatest downside I have found is that our area (around the convention center) lacks a neighborhood feel.  In general, downtown Denver has this feeling, it is a place to go and then leave to go home whether you are out for work or a night out.  So, unlike New York City where you have a very communal vibe and neighborhoods change every few blocks, Downtown Denver feels more corporate, and you don’t really get to walk down the block and wave to all your neighbors.  
However, along with a number of downtown development organizations (and perhaps a new school!), my family continues to find joy in living here.  
So while many go to downtown Denver for a big outing or event, or for the ordinary day to day work, here are a few ways we are making the ordinary the event, and the event the ordinary, in our everyday of living downtown.  And of course, we do it on the cheap, because that is how we roll.
Making the event the ordinary, this summer Elitch Gardens became our own playground.  We walk or take the free bus down to the bridge and then cross over.  They have a great, contained, and never crowded kiddie ride area (and while most three year olds can ride all the rides there, they are free entry to the park!).  Plus the water park became our own personal pool.  With a season pass and going over ten times, it was cheap and constant fun.  
The Children’s Museum, The Denver Art Museum, and the children’s section in the Denver Public Library become everyday adventures.  Story times, craft times, and the amazing staff at the Library are incomparable.  Mud + a 3 year old at the Denver Art Museum = a no brainer.
We have front row seats to the Winter Festival parade, the Saint Patrick’s Day parade, outdoor movies and ice-skating at the Clock Tower, fireworks at Civic Center Park, and a little boy’s dream – the car show at The Convention Center.  No parking, no money, no hassle, no stress, and blocks away from home when a diaper change or a nap is needed.

And perhaps even more fun is found when we make the ordinary the event.  Our apartment complex is adjacent to a public parking garage, and to my joy there is a large window that allows us to peek into the gate opening and closing as people leave work at 5pm.  Cars + 3 year old on a rainy day = hours of entertainment. 
When our apartment feels too small, but I feel too tired for an adventure, the boys roam the halls of the building, the three year old practicing the balance bike, the baby his crawling, or turning the empty multiuse room into a bouncy ball haven.  Even better is when we frequent the free bus loved by both the baby and the little boy, up and down the 16th street mall.  
We watch the cranes as they construct the new Judicial Center by The Capitol and meet up with my husband at the gourmet food carts at Civic Center Park on Tuesday or Thursday. Organic choices and free ice cream at Jason’s Deli can’t be beat, nor can the “happy hour” $4 fruit crepes at Crepes n’ Crepes, just to name a few.
As in all our lifestyle choices, there are obvious compromises, but it works for us right now and may be a place to consider, if not to live, to visit more frequently with your families.  Now, I will begin this fall to embark on the school choice, and I know this is where living downtown may be tricky, so we will see.  In the meantime, the potential new Downtown Denver Expeditionary School will be hosting an Open House at The Children’s Museum on October 13 from 4:30-7:30.  See you there!
Letia Frandina is a mother of 2 young boys and resides in Downtown Denver with her husband. She earned her PhD from the University of North Carolina in communication studies. When she is not roaming the streets of Denver with her sons, she teaches courses in media culture, public speaking, and urban rhetoric. 




Talking with Kids about 9/11: Lessons in Compassion


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 06:00:45 +0000
With the ten year anniversary of September 11th looming near, many parents may be wondering what to tell their children about that infamous day. Most of today’s school age kids were either very young children or not yet born when the attacks occurred. They likely don’t have their own memories of the day, but have grown up in a world significantly impacted by its events. Terror alerts, Al-Qaeda, the TSA, and the wars of Iraq & Afghanistan have been a constant backdrop to their young lives.
(photo credit)
For many parents this anniversary may bring up surprising emotions including memories of the trauma they experienced on 9-11 and the days and months following as we learned more and more about the events surrounding the attacks and the people whose lives were lost. I know it has taken me off guard as I have watched some of the interviews and reflections on television this last week and begun those conversations with my own children.
I believe this anniversary is an excellent opportunity to teach our children about the good in the world rather than focus on the terrorism that occurred. I still look back in awe at the courage, bravery, and generosity exhibited by people from all walks of life. Strangers risking and giving their lives for each other without hesitation or expectation. People from around the world offering their support. It was truly amazing to witness. Telling these stories honors the lives of those who were killed and helps our children see the good in humanity.
Many children know the basic facts about planes flying into the twin towers. Others may also know that there were two other planes involved, one hitting the Pentagon and the other missing its target due to the strength and determination of the passengers aboard. Sticking to basics facts like these and avoiding too much detail about the gore and horror of those events is important to prevent young children from becoming unnecessarily fearful. Older children (tweens and teens) may have more questions and be prepared to talk about it on a different level.
In your conversations with your children, start by asking what they already know about the day. Let their answers and level of interest guide where you go in the conversation and how much additional information to share. Support them by answering their questions. If you need to process your own feelings, do so with another adult.
Children often ask why the terrorists committed such a horrible act against our country. I believe this is an opportunity to discuss how hatred, intolerance, and judgment can blind people into de-humanizing others and believing it is justifiable to harm and kill them. Teaching and living with compassion, tolerance, and understanding is the antidote to terrorism and hatred. I also believe it is important to acknowledge that as individuals we often start down that same road when we assume values and beliefs about people based on the way they look, eat, dress, speak, or worship. We do this frequently without even realizing it and we teach this to our children through our behavior. We can teach acceptance and kindness instead when we raise our awareness of our own actions.
There are many lessons to be learned from 9-11. One I hope to pass on to my children is to live with an open heart, a curious mind, and willingness to accept all people for who they are no matter how different they seem from us. What lessons will you choose to pass on?
“Hatred never ceases by hatred, but by love alone is healed. This is an ancient and eternal law.” ~Buddha
For more information on talking with kids about disasters click here. Find additional articles specifically related to 9-11 at 9-11 Heroes and The Huffington Post.
Lisa Vratny-Smith, MSW, RYT, is the mom of two big brained boys who wears many hats including school social worker, yoga teacher, giggle aficionado, author of Laughing Yoga Mama blog, and editor of Mile High Mamas Mama Drama column.




Event Round-Up: Thomas the Tank Engine, The Local Flavor Festival & More!


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 17:25:45 +0000
Weekends through Sept. 25. Hear that train a-comin’? It’s Thomas the Tank Engine, and he’s making an extended stop at the Colorado Railroad Museum starting Saturday. It’s the “Leader of the Track” tour: A full-size Thomas will be giving his fans rides around the museum, and Sir Topham Hatt will be on-hand to make sure all goes smoothly. Craft activities, live music, storytelling and videos will add to the fun before and after the ride with Thomas. Stick around, too, to check out the museum’s collection of historic train engines and railcars. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays through Sept. 25. Colorado Railroad Museum, 17155 W. 44th Ave., Golden ; 303-279-4591. Tickets are $18 for guests ages 2 and older. Buy tickets at ticketweb.com or call 866-468-7630. coloradorailroadmuseum.org
Sunday. Cultivate your inner locavore at the Local Flavor Festival. The 3rd annual fest brings together local businesses and arts organizations to celebrate Colorado. Listen to music from local acts like John Common and Blinding Flashes of Light, Pink Hawks and Chris McGarry and the Insomniacs at the Lowenstein Cultureplex, an all-star lineup of Denver-based businesses. Kids can listen to storytelling at the Tattered Cover and take “Dance With Me” lessons from Ballet Nouveau. Sample food and drink from Colorado purveyors like Chipotle, Grant Family Farms and Great Divide Brewing Company. Live entertainment includes performances by Ballet Nouveau and Capoeira Luanda, too. 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday. Lowenstein Cultureplex, 2526 E. Colfax Ave. Admission is free. coloradolocalfirst.com
Saturday. Mutts get their day in the sun at the Festival of the Bastardino: A Celebration of Mixed-Heritage Dogs at Pirates Cove water park. The big highlight is the Doggie Plunge, when pups of all stripes—and spots—get to paddle to their heart’s content in the Pirates Cove pool. (The staff stopped adding chlorine after Labor Day.) Humans can have fun, too, shopping in a vendor area, playing games and snacking on food. Remember that Fido needs to wear a collar and be vaccinated. Proceeds from the event benefit Freedom Service Dogs, a local rescue and service-dog organization. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday. Pirates Cove at Belleview Park, 1225 W. Belleview Ave., Littleton. Admission is free; tickets for the Plunge are $10 per dog. freedomservicedogs.org
Saturday. Say goodbye to summer at the Mount Crested Butte Festival of Beers and Chili Cookoff. Featuring live music from the Sam Holt Band, Springdale Quartet and Better Late Than Never, the brewfest invites the 21-plus crowd to sample beers from more than a dozen breweries. Food fans can scarf chili to their heart’s content—it’ll be especially good in the high-country’s fall chill. After the music and sampling dies down, honors will be presented to the winners of the chili cookoff. Noon to 6 p.m. Saturday. Crested Butte Mountain Resort, Crested Butte. Admission is $25 and includes unlimited sampling. cbchamber.com
Saturday. Bicycles take over Denver—if only for a few hours—at New Belgium Brewing’s Tour de Fat. The day starts with a cruise from City Park to downtown and back, via Cheesman Park. After the ride, the pedal people will gather in the park for live music and New Belgium beers. Musical acts include Paper Bird, Marty Jones, Los Amigos Invisibles, Dovekins, Daredevil Chicken Club and more. Despite the beer and bands, it’s family friendly event. “This is a bicycle festival with beer, not the other way around,” states the Tour’s “Ten Commandments” on Facebook. Proceeds from the Tour benefit local bike organizations. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Saturday. City Park, 17th Avenue and York Street. Admission is free. Suggested $5 donation for parade. facebook.com/tourdefat
Kathleen St. John




Successful School Fundraisers: Cookie Dough vs Real Dough


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 13:00:20 +0000
It’s no secret that schools are hurting for cash. Parent volunteers are stepping up as best they can, and schools turn to fundraisers to help bridge the gap between the Have and the Want, or in some cases, the Need.
(Stock photo by muresan113)
I do not begrudge the schools for doing fundraisers, and kudos to the volunteers! The kids need what the schools offer, and these things don’t come for free. During a time when millions of dollars are being cut from school budgets across the state, the money has to come from somewhere. The old adage is true: money doesn’t grow on trees.
I’m going to go out on one of those mythical tree limbs and say it’s not found in a tub of cookie dough, either.
Yes, I said it.
Out loud.
I refuse to sell cookie dough!
I don’t want to buy your kids’ cookie dough!
We’ve all been guilted into doing just that. For us, it was our wonderful babysitter who was forced to peddle her wares on our street. Over the years, her sales pitch gained a tinge of honesty: “I’m so sorry. I hate doing this,” she’d say with a sigh when I came to the door. “…but I’m in gymnastics AND band this year.” One year, that was her entire sales pitch.
Not that our babysitter would ever blackmail us with butter braids or cookie dough, but I almost always err on the side of caution, especially when date-night hangs in the balance. “I’ll get my checkbook” was always my answer to the embarrassed look on her face.
“But, JoAnn! People need an excuse to give money to the schools! Cookie dough is the perfect way to do that!”
Oh really? I don’t think so. My babysitter could have been selling painted rocks, and I would have written out a check. She could have just asked for a donation for the school, and I would have given it to her. My actions were about supporting her and her classmates.  They were never about the cookie dough or the butter braids.  It’s too bad a larger percentage of my money couldn’t have gone to her school with that transaction.
Fast forward a couple years…
Last year, while in Pre-K, my daughter came home from class with a packet. She could win all kinds of these wonderful trinkets for selling cookie dough! And, for this wonderful opportunity, the school would get a teeny-tiny percentage of the proceeds! Yay!
You want to be supportive of your school, don’t you?
Of course I wanted to be supportive, but the last thing I wanted to do was hawk tubs of cookie dough on the corner. If my daughter wants to go into sales as a career, she can work on those skills MUCH later in life. None of our relatives live in this state, so the “built-in” supporters aren’t here. Knowing how much I love answering the door to solicitors, why would I want to do it to my neighbors?
I loved her school. I’d love to support her school. So, that’s what I did. I filed the packet away (read: recycling bin) and wrote a check directly to the school.
I went to the office the next day and offered my sincere apologies for not allowing my daughter to participate in a selling campaign. I then pulled out our check and handed it to the director.
She burst into tears and had trouble finding the words to thank me.
Finding a way to support the school without having to sell cookie dough was thanks enough.  We didn’t have to pester any of our neighbors or friends. We could afford a donation; the school got to keep 100% of the funds, and there was NO COOKIE DOUGH IN MY HOUSE.
That’s what you call a Win-Win, times two!
Not to mention the fact that we got to record our check in the Donation Spreadsheet for our CPA to handle at tax time. (Another win!)
Now, my daughter wasn’t really old enough to have her heart set on winning anything on that colorful poster, so my job was easy. If we’re ever put in that position, I’ll explain to her the true value of a donation and hope she can withstand the peer pressure of being denied shiny trinkets based on the sales of frozen goods.
Claire started Kindergarten this fall at a local public Charter school, and so far, the fundraisers are not sales-based. Participation is fun and easy, because it’s based on things we’ll be doing anyway. There is a pledge drive for a Read-a-thon; local restaurants host “school spirit nights” where they donate a percentage of the sales for the evening to the school, and participation in SCRIP is a big thing, just to name a few. (SCRIP is where I purchase a gift card to our local grocery store. Every time I use the reloadable card to buy groceries, our school automatically gets a percentage of the proceeds.)
If the cookie dough tubs ever make an appearance, though, I’m just heading straight for my checkbook. I’ll give my dough straight to the school. You can keep that other stuff in the fridge.
What about you?  Do you hide when the neighborhood kids knock on your door?  Does your school do fundraisers that don’t involve selling, or are you forced to peddle wares all in the name of supporting the school?




The Gardening Mama Visits Miller Farms!


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 13:00:02 +0000
If your garden has met the end of its season or if you just can’t get enough of the sweet, succulent, goodness that is Colorado-grown produce (garden or no garden) then take a trip to Miller Farms and harvest a crop of nutrient-dense and ready-to-eat fruits and veggies. The annual Miller Farms Fall Festival is in full swing! Head on up to Platteville and be ready to work. The reward is a bounty of fresh food to gobble up or put up for the winter! 
From its early beginnings in 1949 as a dairy farm and harvesting such crops as alfalfa, corn, beans and beets the Miller family has grown their 900 acres of land North of Denver into a farm-attraction destination with over 40 different crops that provides for an on-farm market stand, a CSA, and stands at 40 farmers markets throughout Colorado and even one in Wyoming.
Years ago I was introduced to Miller Farms through my son’s school field trip. We took a hay ride out to the fields and picked our own bags of gorgeous vegetables – beets, onions, carrots and potatoes – and a jack-o-lantern pumpkin for each member of the family. All the crops at Miller Farms are free of pesticides or herbicides.
After the harvest the kids climbed onto antique tractors, raced pedal cars around the tire track and climbed the enormous hay bales tower for a day filled with a little work, a lot of fresh veggies and a ton of fun!
Every year the folks at Miller Farms add a little more wonder and excitement to the mix. This year is no exception.
The petting zoo is filled with friendly farm animals including a Chester the duck who thinks he is a chicken.
“New” antique tractors have been added to the line up that greets you as you pull into the farm. The oldest tractor is a red 1923 McCormick Deering. Sitting on the big red machine with massive steel wheels on either side of the drivers seat makes you feel like a real farmer who can take on even the biggest field of the juiciest corn!
There’s a real bi-plane to climb into along with a big red fire engine and mammoth a sized beetle! All the machines and sculptures have been searched out and brought to Miller Farms to provide hands on play for the thousands of visitors received each year. Even the most run-down of tractors is restored to full operation before being placed on display.
During the winter months when the farm is tucked in for the season, the crew will search the internet for unusual and eye-catching cars and tractors to enhance their collection and, I think, fulfill their love to tinkering with machines! Can you find Mator?
The annual Miller Farm corn maze is open and ready to put your navigation skills to the test. A random path is this years’ chosen design that will run you in circles and befuddle even the most cunning of adventurers before you get to the end.
October 10 – 31 the corn maze turns becomes haunted at night! The staff will be decked out in costumes and weaving their best haunted tales setting the stage for a spooky night-time enchanted walk through the corn.
Miller Farms Fall Festival
September 5 – November 15. Hours: Daily 9am – 6pm
Fall Festival–Pricing for 2011 (Prices are for the Fall Festival only)
Individuals $15.00 per person
Family of 4 $50.00 ($12.00 per additional person)
Groups of 10 or more $12.00 per person
Public School Tours (10 student minimum) $8.00 per person (Teachers and bus drivers free)
Home Schools, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts – $10.00 per person
Active Military, Policemen and Firefighters $12.00 per person (Proper ID required *rate good for all members in group)
I had to ask the question, why is the rate higher for home schoolers and scouts compared to public school students? Miller Farms has found over the years that the home school and scout kids tend to work harder and fill their harvest bags to capacity!
What happens to the crops after November 15? The farm opens up for a gleening day where local church groups, charity organizations, and families in need harvest everything that is left over so that every last veggie is put to good use feeding those who need it most.
For ideas on what to do with your bountiful harvest there is a list of recipes on http://www.millerfarms.net/.
Bring water, sturdy shoes and gloves and be ready to harvest!
Each day the produce picking line up changes. There are a lot of repeat visitors to Miller Farms throughout the harvest season. Many folks are able to preserve all that they harvest and make the goodness last all winter!
As the Gardening Mama I have tucked away my own garden for the season but will return in October in my latest role as The Home Schooling Mama! I’m hoping that beets will be on the harvest list during our visit to Miller Farms so I can put up a batch for holiday gifts and delicious canned beets to last until spring while I plan my garden layout for 2012!
What will you make with your harvest?  See you at Miller Farms!






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


