Cold Cases - powered by FeedBurner
&



Cold Cases

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Cold Cases delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Girl hitchhiking home from Nederland high school tied up and murdered


Posted: Sat, 03 Sep 2011 18:24:17 +0000
Melanie “Suzi” Cooley was an adventurous girl.
Jefferson County SheriffMelanie "Suzi" Cooley, 18, in 1975
The 18-year-old girl, who grew up during the 1970s, loved living with her family in the foothills halfway between Nederland and Boulder on Magnolia Road.
One time she camped for three days by herself in a tent in the mountains.
While she was hiking during the day a bear raided her camp, overturning a log teaming with ants, shredding a plastic container that had contained beef jerky and left huge footprints.
Suzi was so excited about the experience she brought her mother, Nina, to the site.

Suzi was a good student at Nederland High School where students and teachers alike either loved her or had a tough time getting along, Nina Cooley said. Suzi would speak her mind and didn’t always follow the rules. It got her in trouble at times.
She took photographs for the high school yearbook, kept score for the high school basketball team and worked at Eldora Ski Resort as a valet driver.
Suzi was a talented girl. She did macrame, painted, made jewelry, wrote poetry, played guitar and sang. She embroidered a large eagle on the back of her denim jacket.
It was the jacket she was wearing on the day she was murdered, April 15, 1975. Nina remembers that morning clearly. Suzi, who had long dark hair, had her hair pinned up. She was wearing jeans, her tan boots and blouse.
“She looked very pretty,” Nina said.
After school Suzi often hitch-hiked home, often with neighbors who lived along Magnolia Road. She didn’t like going on the bus, she said.
“She was somewhat of a willful girl,” Nina said. “She wanted what she wanted right then.”
Hitchhiking was a common mode of transportation at the time. Stranger danger warnings would come many years later.
“For us, a stranger was a friend we hadn’t met yet,” Nina Cooley said.
That afternoon after school friends noticed Nina with her thumb out as she walked just outside the high school. No one saw which vehicle she climbed into. She may have started walked down the rural road and hadn’t been picked up until there was no one else around.
Suzi never made it home.
That night Nina was frantic. It wasn’t like Suzi to not come home. She wasn’t one to run away.
“We were looking everywhere for her,” Nina said. “It was beyond horror.”
Whenever a panel truck drove by, Nina would listen carefully for pounding or screaming.
Two weeks passed.
“The sheriff called and said her body was found,” Nina said.
A road crew found her body was found in Coal Creek Canyon southeast of Nederland.
“I was stunned beyond belief. I wanted to argue; surely it couldn’t be her,” she said.
But they found her report card in the coat she had embroidered. Dental records further confirmed her identity.
Nina, her husband, and her two other children were in for more horrors.
Suzi had been tied up and pummeled to death with a large rock. Her blouse was bloody; her clothes were torn.
Investigators interrogated Suzi’s brothers as though they might have been involved. But the investigation would turn to an infamous killer, Ted Bundy, who was in Colorado at the time.
Bundy has since been eliminated as a suspect.
Thirty-five years later, Nina’s husband died without seeing anyone brought to justice.
There have been many suspects but no one has been arrested.
Contact information: Cheryl Moore of the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office can be reached at (303) 271-5625, or cmoore@jeffco.us.
Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or mitchell@denverpost.com




Girl’s body found in alley following hospital visit


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 04:23:17 +0000
Denver Police DepartmentTracy Lynn Wooden, 15 in 1985.
Fifteen-year-old Tracy Lynn Wooden hurt her knee bad enough that she needed medical attention on Aug. 11, 1985. A doctor treated her and she was released from the hospital in the early morning hours the next morning.
But after her discharge, Tracy vanished.
Her parents who lived in Washington Park filed a missing person report.
Weeks passed.

They did not know that Tracy’s body had been discovered in an alley behind Fox Supply Co. at 2229 Blake St.
A short story about the discovery appeared in The Denver Post at the time.
An employee of the plumbing company had found the body lying amidst glass and debris at about 7:30 a.m. on Aug. 12.
The body couldn’t have been there more than 4 1/2 hours because the same employee had been at the same spot at 3 a.m., according to the 1985 article.
A description of the body was perfunctory and almost generic.
The article said the “woman” was 5-feet-2, white, with brown hair and weighing about 125 pounds. Police found a pair of jeans next to her body. Tracy was only wearing a light-colored lace blouse.
Wooden’s family apparently didn’t see the article and police didn’t connect their missing person’s report with the discovery of the body.
Tracy had had her share of troubles in the past. She had run away from home a few times and was known to use drugs and alcohol, according to a Denver police report.
An autopsy indicated Tracy had been strangled to death.
It wasn’t until early September, three weeks after the body was discovered in the alley, that authorities determined that the woman was actually 15-year-old Tracy.
Then Lt. David Michaud, who would later become Denver’s police chief and more recently chairman of the state parole board, blamed the slow discovery on an “oversight.”
“Her family has been deeply affected by this tragedy and would like to see this case solved,” according to a police report.
Contact information: The Denver Police Department can be reached at 720.913.2000. Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




Teen finds mother fatally shot on kitchen floor


Posted: Mon, 22 Aug 2011 01:01:40 +0000
Patricia Grimberg was a Holland native. She emigrated to the United States when she was 11.
Denver Police Department


Patricia Grimberg, 34


Grimberg was a quiet woman, a little bit on the shy side.
She was a devoted housewife and mother of three young children, ages 13, 11 and 2, said her former husband, Edmund Grimberg.
She sewed clothes for herself and her children. She kept her house spotless and had a few very close friends at her church.
Shortly before her murder, Edmund Grimberg was promoted as a manager at Mountain Bell. He worked in a Lakewood office.
The family had a home on the 1900 block of South Pearl Street.
She was 34.

It was a warm spring Thursday on March 13, 1980. Neighbors remembered seeing her in her front yard sprucing up the flower bed.
She had put her daughter down for a nap. It was the girl’s second birthday. A neighbor who lived about four houses away would later recall hearing a loud popping noise that afternoon.
Her 13-year-old daughter was the first one to arrive home. She walked into the kitchen and found her mother sprawled out on the floor. The girl was horrified.
Her mother had been shot at least four times, according to a Denver Post article that appeared.
Patricia Grimberg never had any enemies; never got into squabbles with neighbors, her husband said.
It was about 3 p.m., when Edmund Grimberg was called to his boss’ office immediately. When he arrived his boss handed the phone to him.
A Denver police officer asked him if he had been home that afternoon. When he said he hadn’t, he was told that he was to go home immediately and speak with a detective. He wouldn’t say why he was needed but it was apparent something terrible had happened. He turned pale with fright.
He imagined that his wife had gotten into an accident while driving to pick their 11-year-old son up from a private school.
“I went into a panic,” Edmund Grimberg said.
His boss read the look on his face and decided he was in no condition to drive home so he gave him a ride.
Edmund Grimberg would soon learn his worst fears were realized. Still, he had to answer more questions about the family’s comings and goings. He was asked to take a polygraph test, which he took and passed.
It didn’t surprise him that he would come under suspicion knowing that homicide victims were often murdered by loved ones.
For his part, Edmund Grimberg suspects that someone happened to be outside and saw his attractive wife working in the yard. It was a crime of opportunity. One moment she was tending to her garden, the next she was facing her killer in her home.
It has been many years since the tragedy. Edmund Grimberg remarried. His children all grew to adulthood including the child whose birthdate falls on the same day as her mother’s murder.
“It’s been very hard,” he said. “The true victims in this are the living – the family.”
He hasn’t heard from detectives since about two years after his wife was killed. They haven’t called him and he hasn’t sought them out.
“I came to the point where it was out of my hands and there was nothing I could do. I couldn’t let this drag me totally down,” Edmund Grimberg said.
A few years ago, Edmund Grimberg Jr. called the police department looking for answers.
Denver police spokesman Sonny Jackson said the department’s cold case unit investigated the case recently. Again there was insufficient evidence to charge anyone. The case will never close until it is solved, he said.
“My basic belief is God is the judge,” Edmund Grimberg Sr. said. “There will be a judgment to come and there will be punishment.”
Contact information: The Denver Police Department can be reached at 720.913.2000. Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




Grizzly Rose guard gunned down in parking lot


Posted: Mon, 01 Aug 2011 02:09:34 +0000
Courtesy Families of Victims of Homicide and Missing PersonsTimothy Minnick, 48
Victim’s name: Timothy Minnick, 48
Where killed: Grizzly Rose nightclub, 5450 Valley Highway
Investigative agency: Adams County Sheriff’s Office
Date killed: Dec. 12, 2008
Cause of Death: Shot
Suspect: none identified
Timothy Minnick’s life had been spiralling downward for years when he confronted masked thieves at the popular country and western nightclub Grizzly Rose.
In the years before his shooting death in the parking lot of the nightclub that featured the likes of Garth Brooks and Taylor Swift he had suffered some difficult setbacks.
Minnick had gone through two divorces.

A bank foreclosed on the 48-year-old’s Montbello home.
He moved into a mobile home, which was destroyed by fire in February 2007. His dog was killed.
Minnick had an Internet business, Intertec Web Solutions, which tanked because much of his clients’ data burned in the fire.
He declared bankruptcy months before his death.
Then another brother died of a massive heart attack.
“He was struggling to put everything back together,” his brother Leland Minnick has said.
To add insult to injury, the former Brighton police officer was working a job he didn’t like and was looking for something else. It was tough, though. The economy was bad and good jobs were scarce. He did have a girlfriend, though.
On Friday night, Dec. 12, 2008, Minnick was working at the nightclub that hosts some of the biggest country and western entertainers in the business and is one of the places to be during the National Western Stock Show.
On a Friday night, the Grizzly Rose is typically packed for a live show. A lot of money went into the cash register.
The killers apparently went to the nightclub to rob the place.
But patrons saw the young men wearing bandanas and hooded sweatshirts out back and they immediately reported what they saw to Minnick.
Minnick and a partner confronted the three out back at 10:50 p.m.
The young killers didn’t hesitate to draw weapons.
One of the hooded men began firing several rounds at Minnick and the other man.
After he was shot, Minnick was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. The other security officer was not struck.
Witnesses described three suspects as in their teens to early 20s with slender builds and between 5-feet-4 inches and 5-feet-7 inches. One wore a baseball cap.
The suspects were last seen running south from the scene, where they got into a mid-1990s white or silver sport utility vehicle, possibly a GMC Jimmy or Chevrolet Blazer.
The vehicle has a luggage rack and chrome or a light-blue kick-panel. It also has tinted back windows, but the driver’s window did not appear tinted.
A woman was seen in the suspects’ vehicle, and she is described as being heavyset with long hair past her shoulders.
No arrests have been made.
Contact information: The Adams County Sheriff’s Office can be reached at  303.654.1850. Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




Murder victim mistaken for fallen drunk


Posted: Mon, 25 Jul 2011 03:31:45 +0000
Victim’s name: Michael Dobbins, 54
Courtesy of the Colorado Springs Police DepartmentMichael Dobbins, 54
Where body found: alley on 1200 block of South Nevada Avenue
Investigative agency: Colorado Springs Police Department
Date killed: Nov. 9, 1997
Cause of Death: stabbed
Suspect: None identified
There’s a drunk lying in the alley. Could someone come and do something about it?
So came the report to the Colorado Springs Police Department dispatch on Nov. 9, 1997.
It wasn’t an unusual call for this part of town.

Michael Dobbins, 54, was lying in an alley between the Economy Inn and a tire company in the 1200 block of South Nevada Avenue.
It was across the street from Dorchester Park, a popular hangout for homeless people.
The call came in at about 3 a.m.
But when officers arrived, they discovered that Dobbins wasn’t drunk, he was dead.
Someone had stabbed Dobbins to death.
His body was lying beside a trash bin.
Not much is known about the struggle that led to Dobbins’ death. Police don’t have a suspect and did not find a knife.
Dobbins was a former chef and amateur artist, according to an article in the The Gazette of Colorado Springs, which said he moved to Colorado Springs from New York to live near his daughter about a year before he was murdered.
He had a drinking problem and may have been living in a camper near where his body was found, The Gazette reported in 1997.
His daughter had last seen him on his birthday, five days before he died, the newspaper had reported.
Police sought out friends and acquaintances and checked guest registries at nearby motels in an effort to reconstruct Dobbins’ last days, but no leads led to an arrest.
Contact information: The Colorado Springs Police Department can be reached at  719-444-7613 or CSPDColdCase@springsgov.com . Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




Cousin of murder witness caught in crossfire


Posted: Mon, 18 Jul 2011 03:42:53 +0000
Victim’s name: Andre Price, 21
Where killed: 5500 block of Yuba Way
Investigative agency: Denver Police Department
Date killed: June 27, 1995
Cause of Death: Shot seven times in back
Suspect: None identified
Families of Victims of Homicide and Missing PersonsAndre Price, 21.
Susanne Price was a single parent raising a boy and a girl in Montbello and working so she was concerned about who her kids hung around with.
“I had my kids in everything I possibly could to keep them off the street,” Price said. “It could keep them out of trouble.”
Her son, Andre Price Jr., played several different sports including bowling, basketball and baseball.

“I’ve got trophies galore,” she said. “He was great.”
In particular, Andre had a passion for playing baseball and dreamed of playing professional.
He attended several baseball camps and lettered on Montbello High School’s baseball team. In high school he was the class clown.
After graduation in 1992 he tried out for several minor league baseball teams but was never signed.
He enrolled at Aurora Community College, studying psychology and real estate.
He was very busy. He worked as an apprentice electrician installing and repairing light fixtures for Denver Public Schools. Andre’s girlfriend became pregnant. She moved in with the Prices. When his daughter Desirea was born, Andre helped baby-sit her.
Andre liked the style of cars built in the 1960s and 70s. He worked at his father Andre Price Sr’s car lot and enjoyed working on cars and fixing them up.
On June 27, 1995, Andre asked his mother if she could watch Desirea while he visited his cousin Jerry, who was 22, a year older than Andre. Susanne had asthma and had to work the next morning so she told Andre to be back home by 10 p.m.
Andre went to the Barker house on the 5500 block of Yuba Way in Montbello.
He was talking to Jerry Barker Jr. at about 9:50 p.m. when between two and four men, depending on conflicting reports, walked up the street. There was a brief conversation before the men pulled guns out and started blasting away.
One bullet pierced Barker in the neck. He was rushed the hospital and survived.
Price was shot seven times in the back. He was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead upon arrival. He was 21.
Susanne was asleep when her phone rang. Relatives told her that her son and cousin had been shot. She rushed to her car and over to the Barker home. There was crime tape crisscrossing the street. It was a frightening sign.
“They only put up tape when someone is killed,” Susanne Price said.
A woman across the street from where the shooting happened said one of the young men was dead. She was hoping her son had survived, but soon learned otherwise.
She soon learned that Jerry Barker’s brother had been the primary target. He had testified in a murder trial in which a young man was beaten to death. The suspect was convicted.
Several people know who killed Andre and injured Jerry, including Jerry, but no one has given police enough information to lead to charges.
“I can’t understand why this case has gone so long,” Susanne Price said. “They know who did it. They can’t do anything until someone comes forward.”
Susanne became a detective herself. She knocked on doors asking questions. She put up flyers. She held fund raisers and sought contributions for a $20,000 reward for information leading to arrests.
When she did so, someone smashed the windows of her car in front of her house.
“It has never scared me. It only made me stronger,” she said.
One man connected with ties to the case asked her daughter out on a date, apparently in an attempt to learn what the family knew about the killers. The man allegedly drove a getaway car.
In the 16 years that have passed since her son’s murder, no one has come forward.
On every birthday and holiday, Susanne visit’s her son’s grave at Fairmount Cemetery in Denver and leaves flowers.
“We go out there and visit him like he is still alive,” she said.
Last October, Susanne Price happened to meet Frontier Airlines CEO Bryan Bedford when he was disguised with a dark toupee and glass during the taping of an episode for CBS’ Undercover Boss.
Bedford was so impressed by the jovial airline employee and touched by her son’s story that he vowed to name a plane after Andre. Susanne got to help pick the animal on the plane, an antelope.
“It’s an animal with a little color,” she said. “And like Andre, an antelope is very fast.”
Susanne PriceFrontier Airlines plane named after Andre PriceOn April 1, the plane with Andre Price written underneath the pilot’s window, was dedicated. On Mother’s Day, Susanne Price got to clean the plane.
“It’s the cleanest plane in the fleet,” she said.
Contact information: Denver crime stoppers can be reached at  303-913-7867. Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com.




Elderly woman and 48-year-old son fatally stabbed


Posted: Mon, 04 Jul 2011 03:01:00 +0000
Colorado Springs Police DepartmentAnnabelle Leonard, 84
Names of victims: Annabelle and Thomas Leonard, ages 84 and 48
Where bodies found: Colorado Springs townhome
Investigative agency: Colorado Springs Police Department
Date killed: March 15th or 16th, 2003
Cause of Death: Stabbed and slashed
Suspect: none identified
Annabelle Leonard had raised three boys and three girls on a cattle and horse ranch in Lincoln County.
Her world revolved around her children and their activities.
When her fifth child was born with cerebral palsy she offered him extra care. Living on a ranch, Thomas “Tommy” Leonard had chores and was surprisingly very strong even though his right fist was balled up.
“We grew up going to county fairs and rodeos,” said Annabelle’s youngest daughter, Roxi Graham, 55.
In high school, Tommy was often the equipment manager or team statistician. He traveled with the football and basketball teams to games. He was engrossed in sports, Graham said.

Tommy never married. When he was an adult he went from job to job. One time he got a plum job working for the Pro Rodeo Hall of Fame & Museum of the American Cowboy in Colorado Springs.
Annabelle and her husband divorced and she moved to Colorado Springs, where she lived in a townhome at 3834 Constitution Ave. She contributed $100 a year to a gardening fund at the townhomes where she lived.
Thomas "Tommy" Leonard, 48
“My mom was a home body,” Graham said. “She was all about her family. Her kids. She didn’t buy expensive clothes or jewelry.”
Though elderly, she was very active, still driving to the grocery store. She liked to play bridge with friends.
Tommy  once had a fiancee and was getting back together with her in the last part of his life. There had been a conflict over a $3,000 engagement ring. A brother of Tommy’s had confronted the woman and gotten the ring back for him. The woman filed a restraining order against the brother.
Tommy was between jobs and so went to stay with his mother Annabelle weeks before their death.
At 1:22 a.m., on March, 16, 2003, a Sunday morning, firefighters rushed the Leonard home as heavy smoke was streaming out the windows. It took them only about 10 minutes to put the fire out. Fire damage was minimal. The flames had not even reached the upstairs where someone had poured gasoline.
When firefighters extinguished the blaze, they found Annabelle’s body lying in the basement where her son had been staying. Her throat was slit.
There was evidence that someone had been searching for something in the basement. It was ransacked. Drawers were pulled out and the contents dumped on the floor.
But oddly, it didn’t appear that the killers took anything from the home.
Tommy’s body was on the kitchen floor on an upper level. He had been stabbed many times in the torso. Police told the family that one possibility was that the killer was young because they didn’t seem to know where to stab him to kill him, Graham said.
He apparently fought desperately for his life.
It appeared the fire was started to cover up the homicides.
However, Annabelle had grown up during the depression and was very frugal. She bought only what was necessary and saved her money in a secret stash. One of her daughters discovered $10,000 in cash still in the home after the murders.
It’s possible that whoever killed the two knew about the money and entered the home. They likely did so in the evening. The supper’s dishes were already washed and Annabelle and her son likely sat down in the living room to watch TV that Saturday night.
Police didn’t find any evidence that the home had been broken into, leaving the family believing that either Annabelle or Tommy voluntarily let them into the house, Graham said.
“The family doesn’t think this was random,” she said.
There were two chairs out of place. Someone had placed them in the kitchen. Family members believe the killers wielding knives and possibly other weapons forced them to sit in the kitchen.
Graham said if they were looking for Annabelle’s stash of money she would have given it up rather than risk their lives.
“If they wanted money she would have given it to them,” she said.
Graham said she believes the intruders had something else in mind.
“You just shake your head,” she said. “How could someone kill two harmless people. They didn’t have enemies that we know of. They just came in there and did a horrific crime. It baffles police.”
When the police were done processing the crime scene it was turned over to the family.
“There was a lot of blood. There was obviously two areas of trauma. It was pretty devastating,” Graham said.
Family members are hoping that whatever forensic evidence police collected from the townhome will one day be linked to the killer or killers. The family believes multiple people were involved.
It’s also possible that someone will be haunted by what they know and go to police and name the killers.
Contact information: The Colorado Springs Police Department can be reached at 719-444-7613
or  CSPDColdCase@springsgov.com  Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




College student fatally shot on home visit


Posted: Mon, 20 Jun 2011 03:47:35 +0000
Victim’s name: Gilbert Garcia, 19
Where body found: 1800 block of E. 34th Ave.
Investigative agency:  Denver Police Department
Date killed:  Feb. 8, 2007
Cause of Death: Shot in head
Suspect:  None identified
Gilbert Garcia had a different perspective than most kids.
Most teens play sports and work out with the dream of being a famous athlete or at least to be popular in school.
Denver Police DepartmentGilbert Garcia, Mesa State College student
Gilbert was a body builder largely because he needed to be strong enough to help his grandfather.
When he was 11 his grandfather, Juan Ortega, had a stroke and couldn’t walk. 
Gilbert always helped his grandfather, but when he turned 15, he started bathing him and carrying him. He could do it because he lifted weights, his mother Melissa Rodarte said.
Juan Ortega called him “my big fella.”
He wanted to help people like his mother, a medical assistant, had always done. Also, a male nurse had for years cared for his grandfather and Gilbert admired him. He wanted to help people in the same way.

Though he was hampered by dyslexia, he studied hard and went to Adams State College in Alamosa on scholarship. He enrolled in nursing. He was the first one to ever go to college from his family. 
Gilbert’s views about life were different than many of the other kids. Though gangs were running throughout the Cole neighborhood, he stayed clear while attending Bishop Machebeuf Catholic High School in Denver.
“His favorite saying was, ‘We have two strikes against us. We’re Hispanic males and we have to go to college,’ ” his grandmother Yolanda Ortega said.
His freshman year of college, he continued to get excellent grades. In early February of 2007 Gilbert was planning on coming home for the weekend. He decided to take an anatomy test a day early and after he got an A he jumped in his 1984 Mazda pickup truck and headed home. His arrival was a happy surprise.
His mother was a single mom and he often saw himself as a surrogate father to his younger sister even though she was only three years younger.
Yolanda Garcia was only two weeks from turning 15 and he was heavily involved in helping to plan her Quinceañera. 
As was his custom he went to his sister’s parent-teacher conference with his mother that evening. Yolanda got to chose what they had for dinner that night and so they had Chinese.
During the dinner, Gilbert made an off-handed remark.
“ ‘This will be the last time we eat dinner together,’ ” Rodarte said.
She told him no, that he would go back to school but Denver was always his home. 
“‘I’m going home, home, mom,’” Rodarte said he told her. “I think he always knew what was going to happen.”
A few hours later, he asked his grandfather if he wanted him to move him into his bed and he said no, he could wait.
Gilbert had something he wanted to do that night. He and two friends climbed into his pickup and headed to a friend’s house. They were going to burn some CDs for Yolanda’s Quinceañera.
It was about 8:45 p.m. A car immediately followed him when he pulled away from his house. Shortly afterward that car pulled back and a dark-colored car pulled up along-side Gilbert’s pickup truck at East Bruce Randolph Avenue and Williams Street at a stop sign. One shot was fired. It pierced Gilbert’s head and he died instantly.
Instead of a Quinceañera there was a funeral to attend.
Ten weeks later, a heart-broken Juan Ortega, 63, told his daughter “‘my big fella is here. I have to go now.’” He died later that day, she said. 
Gilbert’s death was devastating to many people but it also touched many of Gilbert’s friends as well. 
A year later, four kids who were going to drop out of high school decided to stick it out and graduate in honor of Gilbert, his mother said. 
Although Gilbert was the first of the family to go to college, Yolanda will be the first to graduate. She’ll be a junior at Colorado State University this year, majoring in psychology and minoring in criminal justice.
No one has ever been arrested in Gilbert’s shooting. Some people speculated that his was shot in retaliation for another recent gang shooting.
But Gilbert didn’t have anything to do with gangs, his mother said. It was just random senseless violence two blocks from home.
Contact information: The Denver police department can be reached at 720-913-7867.  Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




Elderly woman attacked in home, strangled


Posted: Mon, 13 Jun 2011 01:25:56 +0000
Victim’s name: Frances Earnest, 70
Where body found: Upstairs bedroom on bed
Investigative agency:  Denver Police Department
Date killed:  July 2, 1986
Cause of Death: Beaten and strangled
Suspect:  None identified
Frances Earnest was born during World War I in 1916 on a horse ranch in Boulder.
She went to school until the eighth grade and never married.
Her family was her cats and she had 15 of them after her retirement. She got so many of them, city employees made get rid of some.

Earnest lived in a pea green-colored, two-story stucco house on the 900 block of Vrain Street.
She was a creature of habit, according to a Denver Post news article in 1986.
Every day at 9:30 a.m. going back 20 years she would walk to the home of Jack and Grace Holly to get the previous day’s newspaper. She lived off of her social security check. She was 70.
The Hollys would then see the tiny woman who was only 4-feet-7 on the corner of West 10th Avenue and Vrain, where she would catch a bus to go downtown.
She was so reliable that on July 2, 1986 when she failed to pick up her neighbor’s newspaper and no one saw her walking to the bus stop, there was immediate concern.
Her next door neighbor who often worked in Earnest’s yard and looked out for her noticed that the front door was ajar.
Thinking that her neighbor might have had a heart attack or had fallen, she took her 7-year-old nephew into the house to check on Earnest.
She sent the boy upstairs, but he soon ran back down. His face was pale.
When the neighbor went upstairs to see what was wrong she found Earnest’s body lying on the bed. She was unclothed from the waist down.
Her beloved cat was missing.
Police later reported that she was beaten and strangled and possibly sexually assaulted.
The case was never solved.
Contact information: The Denver Police Department can be reached at 720-913-7867.
   Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com




Aurora woman’s dismembered body dumped in Glenwood Springs


Posted: Mon, 06 Jun 2011 01:40:53 +0000
Victim’s name:  Janine Johler, 38
Where body found: In apple orchard near Glenwood Springs
Investigative agency:  Garfield County Sheriff’s Office
Date missing:  May 7, 2009
Suspect:  none identified
The mystery began on a warm June 12, 2009 day in an apple orchard about five miles west of Glenwood Springs.
FBI's Violent Criminal Apprehension ProgramJanine Ann Johler, courtesy FBI.
A teen-age boy who worked for the orchard owned by Kirstie Steiner found something wrapped in plastic buried under a stack of branches.
A dismembered woman’s body was inside a tattered plastic bag. 
It was obvious that animals had been tearing at the bag to get at the woman’s remains.
Not all of her remains were recovered at the dump site, according to a report by the FBI’s Violent Criminal Apprehension Program. 
The location where someone had dumped the body was about 20 feet off of Canyon Creek Road and about a quarter mile from Interstate 70.
A criminal investigation was begun. The Garfield County Sheriff’s Office scoured the orchard. 

A long line of investigators walked through the orchard searching for clues.
The coroner’s office later determined with fingerprints that the body was that of an Aurora woman, Janine Ann Johler.
The 38-year-old woman hadn’t been seen for a little over a month.
Kirk Mitchell, The Denver PostJanine Ann Johler, courtesy of FBI
Her family reported her as a missing person on May 7, according to the FBI report.
Friends who knew Johler told investigators that she had a diminished mental capacity. She also had been in a car accident and was physically disabled as well. She had a limp.
In the years before her death, she had filed three requests for restraining orders against a man who was in jail at the time of Johler’s disappearance.
She had a minor criminal record, including a 2001 conviction for prostitution in Denver, according to court records.
The FBI, Aurora police department, Garfield Sheriff’s Office, the Colorado Bureau of Investigation and Denver metro law enforcement continue to investigate the case.
Contact information: Garfield County Crime Stoppers can be reached at 970-945-0101 and Denver Metro Crime Stopper can be reached at 720-913-7867. Denver Post reporter Kirk Mitchell at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


