vBulletin SEO: The vBSEO Solution


Serious Search Engine Friendliness



Professional vBulletin SEO with a 5 Minute Installation of vBSEO
The #1 Solution for Your vBulletin Powered Forum


vBulletin SEO Forums

      Purchase vBSEO




      Download vBSEO
vBSEO 
      Control Panel


vBSEO stands for  vBulletin Search Engine Optimization, 
  a powerful plugin for 
vBulletin forum and suite, built using  
  patent-pending SEO technology.
vBSEO is designed to be easy for you. It's powerful control panel 
  and easy installation allows you to be up and running in only minutes.
In that instant, vBulletin SEO begins optimizing your forum immediately in 
  real-time... ultimately allowing Google and other search engines to find all 
  of your forum pages, index them, and rank them more prominently for thousands 
  of keywords on your site:
The 
  bottom line for you is more Web traffic to your forum
The success stories below are real life samples of how vBSEO can propel 
  your forums to greater levels of traffic and income:

Become the #1 vBulletin Forum with vBSEO - $1400 in One Day!
How did vBSEO Buy a Young Entrepreneur a BMW M3 Luxury Car?
The Fastest Way to $20K with vBSEO - The FireBlades Story

What does vBSEO do?
vBSEO is a plugin for vBulletin forum software. Once installed, vBSEO ensures that all of your vBulletin forum content 
  pages (i.e. threads) can be included in Internet search engines such as Google, Yahoo, MSN, and hundreds of 
  other search engines. 

How does vBSEO make my vBulletin forums search engine friendly?
Why is configuring static URLs for your forum and thread pages important?
 
Why should you choose vBSEO?
Doesn’t vBulletin do this already?
 
Features of vBSEO
vBSEO Custom Rewrite Rules - Ensuring Full Compatibility with 3rd Party vBulletin Hacks 
vBSEO Makes the vBulletin Archive into a Perfect Sitemap 
vBSEO Provides an Easy Backup, Restore, and Sharing Feature

 
Are there any performance issues with vBSEO?
What are the minimum system requirements to run vBSEO?
What are the vBSEO license requirements (or EULA)?

 
Where can I learn more about the importance of static, content relevant URLs, vBulletin SEO, and search engine optimization?

How does vBSEO make my vBulletin forums search engine friendly?
One part of what the vBSEO solution does is make your vBulletin forum and thread pages look “static” 
  and content rich. Static URL means that they appear to be just like regular website pages that end in .html or .htm, etc. Search engines love static pages (as opposed to dynamic URLs  like PHP scripts, etc).
But this is just the beginning. One of vBSEO’s most unique features is that it allows you to configure the actual format of all URLs (website addresses) for forum pages. You can choose to customize your own CRU (Content Relevant URL with relevant keywords embedded) however you choose. Even achieving a CNN.com style URL configuration is possible. 
But the complete solution has over 200 features 
  and configuration options. You can get a sense of all that is 
  available in the vBSEO Demo.
Other main features include:

LinkBacks (PingBacks/TrackBacks/RefBacks™) - For relevant and 
    inbound/outbound links to/from your forum.
Custom Rewrite Rules - Ensure full compatibility with all of your 
    other vBulletin plugins and custom applications
Custom Redirects - Tell search engines where to find important 
    moved content
Relevant Replacements - Add highly relevant keywords to the page, 
    to boost ranking for those terms
Automatic Title Retrieval for External Links - More effective 
    anchor text for links (adds optimized keywords to your page content)
Social Bookmarking - Build inbound links with (Digg, Technorati, 
    Furl, & del.ici.ous and more)
Logging & Tracking Options

 
Why is configuring static URLs for your forum and thread pages important?
vBSEO allows you to include important keywords from your forum display, thread display, and other pages into the actual URL for the static page - The result is a 
  CRU or Content Relevant URL.
Search engines are capable of finding keywords in website URLs and comparing them against the webpage textual content to determine where the page should be displayed in the search engine results pages (SERPs). If you are not listed highly in the search engine results, you will not have very many Web visitors to your forums. The growth and success of your forum depends largely on the visibility or exposure its obtains from the search engines. 
Search engine ranking algorithms consider 100s of factors when determining how prominently to include your webpages in their search results (SERPs). Therefore, it is vitally important to the success of your website that you take every step possible to search engine optimize your vBulletin forums. Content Relevant URLs is the first step towards complete vBulletin SEO. 
 
Why should you choose vBSEO?
The process of modifying vBulletin for search engine friendliness is extremely complex without vBSEO. 
  In fact, vBSEO has taken over 15,000 man hours to create.
Many expert Web programmers discover the hard way how difficult just 
  creating Content Relevant URLs can be. As a forum admin, your time is best 
  spent growing your community. No matter what you hear, SEO should never be 
  considered a do-it-yourself project... and certainly not for a system as 
  complex as vBulletin.
With vBSEO's 5 minute installation, you erase the need for SEO consultant 
  work and save yourself 100s of hours of time and costly mistakes. And then 
  your SEO begins to work in real-time, giving you the chance to become the next 
  vBSEO success story.
 Except vBSEO, there is no other professional, 
  fully supported vBulletin SEO solution in existence today.
Choose vBSEO and you get access to the solution developed and improved over 
  2 years by the full time, dedicated vBSEO Team.
We have thousand of customers many of whom have 
  well over 10 forums all using vBSEO. These expert forum admins have 
  realized the power of vBSEO - and in most cases, they purchased it for every 
  forum they own. 
Why? Because they tried it out and were blown away by how well it 
  delivered SEO benefits and ultimately more traffic and revenue for their 
  forums.
Our dedicated vBSEO Pre-Release Team tests all versions of vBSEO prior to 
  us releasing GOLD versions to our customers. We try to build a bullet proof, 
  100% bug free product with every new update.
* vBulletin code modification not required for vB versions 3.5.x, 3.6.x, 3.7.x or greater. The installation is handled via the Plugin Manager in the vBulletin Admin CP. 
Certainly vBSEO is not the holy grail of SEO. No one can deliver on a 
  promise on a top 10 ranking for any search term you desire - it's safe to say 
  that you will be disappointed in about 100% of the time if you believe that 
  statement. 
What vBSEO does is optimize every single page of your forum, allowing 
  you to generate search engine traffic from thousands of keywords posted on 
  your forum via user generated content. This is called long tail search traffic 
  - and it should be your primary focus for vBulletin SEO.
The vBSEO solution is the #1 proven method of 
  making your vBulletin forum more search engine friendly, optimized for better 
  rankings, and able to draw more search engine traffic.
If you desire more Web traffic, then vBSEO is an absolute must-have for 
  you!
 
Doesn’t vBulletin do this already?
vBulletin includes an archive feature in versions 3.0.x, 3.5.x,  3.6.x, and 3.7.x. This feature does an excellent job of helping search engines to locate a copy of the postings, threads and other content created by your forum members.
Getting included (or indexed) in the search engines is Step 1. Step 2 is getting listed prominently for the important keywords that are included in your content.
vBSEO picks up where vBulletin’s archive feature leaves off and corrects a many areas that lead to non-optimized search engine pages: 

Duplicate content: If the search engines review both your archive and regular forum pages they can determine that the content is duplicated which often results in large quantities of pages that are flagged as duplicate content being left out of the search engines.
Google Page Rank: The world’s leading search engine is Google. 
  Part of the way it evaluates websites is based on a page-ranking algorithm (i.e. Google PageRank). The PageRank algorithm 
  is heavily based on the number of other webpages that link to your website (called backlinks 
  or LinkBacks™). If other websites begin linking to your vBulletin archive 
  content instead of your main forum pages, some of your Google Page Rank value 
  can be lost. Search Engine Marketing professionals refer to this as “PageRank Leak”.

vBSEO helps eliminate issues with vBulletin duplicate content and leaking of Google Page Rank.
 
Key Features of vBSEO
To discover and explore the full features of vBSEO, please checkout our 
vBSEO Demo. Don't be overwhelmed! 
  vBSEO's default configuration options are used by many of our customers. If 
  you need any help understanding any vBSEO feature or option, please visit us 
  at the vBulletin SEO forums and a member 
  of the vBSEO Total Support Team will provide answers to all of your questions.
vBSEO Custom Rewrite Rules - Ensuring Full Compatibility with 3rd Party vBulletin Hacks 
vBSEO has a built in Custom Rewrite Engine that allows every vBSEO user to create their own custom static URL rewriting. 
  No other vBulletin plugin offers this advanced feature. This ensures that vBulletin 
  forum admins who have any other 3rd party hack installed will be able to 
  remain fully compatible and can avoid duplicate content issues and further improve their vBulletin SEO. 
 
vBSEO Makes the vBulletin Archive into a Perfect Sitemap
vBSEO allows you to change the format of vBulletin Archive URLs to 
  something such as http://yoursite.com/sitemap/. This greatly simplifies the URL format and allows the vBulletin 
  archive to be spidered more effectively by the various search engine bots 
  (GoogleBot, etc). 
 
vBSEO Provides an Easy Backup, Restore, and Sharing Feature 
vBSEO provides the ability to backup, restore, and share your vBSEO  configuration settings. Users can easily copy the settings of another vBSEO enabled forum if they are provided with the backup file. Users are encouraged 
  to discuss and share their SEO strategies and vBSEO configurations at the official 
  vBulletin SEO forums. 
Are there any performance issues with vBSEO?
 vBSEO was designed with performance as a top priority. vBSEO is 100% 
  optimized for regular expressions (regex) and optimal and minimized database 
  queries.
 Most forums will have minimal observable performance impact.
 Servers that are already consuming a high amount of resources (memory & 
  CPU), prior to installing vBSEO, may notice some change in performance. In 
  these cases, the vBSEO Total Support team can provide a checklist of important 
  performance optimization settings to use.
NOTE: vBSEO also includes a feature for Cleaning Up HTML code that will result in faster webpage display for all of your vBulletin forum and thread pages resulting in improved user performance. 
 
What are the minimum system requirements to run vBSEO?

vBSEO works with all current    versions including vBulletin 3 and vBulletin 4.
vBSEO is compatible with the following web servers:
Apache
IIS
Lighttpd
Zeus
Litespeed


For Apache, the mod_rewrite module must be installed and activated in 
    your server configuration. NOTE: Apache mod_rewrite is typically enabled by 
    default on most web servers. If not, you can request your web hosting 
    provider to install and enable it or get assistance from the vBSEO Total 
    Support team.
There is a compatibility test script available here:
    http://www.vbseo.com/downloads/

 
What are the vBSEO license requirements (or EULA)?
Click here to view the vBSEO End User License Agreement. 
 
Where can I learn more about the importance of 
  vBulletin & vBulletin SEO?
There are some excellent online resources. Here are a few of our favorites: 

vBulletin.com
vBulletin.org



Copyright © 2005-2011 Crawlability, Inc. All rights reserved.Contact Us | Phones: 888-777-1318 (US) 