FEMA: Get in the Know: Follow FEMA on Twitter for Disaster Recovery Updates

Skip to content




FEMA.gov




FEMA Mobile Site


Contact Us


A-Z Index


FAQs


Español


Additional Languages




Search

 Advanced Search












Blog


Photos


Videos


Email Updates







Home


Plan & Prepare


Recover & Rebuild


Apply for Assistance


Disasters & Maps


FEMA Audiences


About FEMA


News & Media












Social Media



Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


Widgets


RSS/DATA


Our Internet Presence








News & Media



Advisories


Fact Sheets


Photo Library


Multimedia


Noticias En Español


Press Contacts


Additional Resources






Get in the Know: Follow FEMA on Twitter for Disaster Recovery Updates 

Release Date: September 29, 2011
        Release Number: 4029-029

» More Information on Texas Wildfires

AUSTIN, Texas -- The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) offers Texans a quick way to stay current on disaster recovery operations related to the wildfires: Become a Twitter follower of FEMA Region 6 at www.twitter.com/femaregion6.
With more than 2,000 Twitter followers and counting, FEMA’s Denton, Texas-based regional office supports Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. With disaster recovery operations under way in Texas, FEMA is striving to reach more Texans via Twitter.
“Twitter gives FEMA the opportunity to reach Texans in a very unique way. Followers will receive up to date information about the status of the wildfire recovery mission,” said Federal Coordinating Officer Kevin L. Hannes. “Followers will also receive preparedness and safety practices, hazard alerts and other crucial information related to disaster recovery.”
You can become a FEMA Region 6 Twitter follower in just four easy steps:

You will need a Twitter account. If you don’t have one yet, follow the instructions on Twitter.com to create one
Once you have your Twitter account, sign in and in the search box, type in “femaregion6”
At femaregion6, click on the “Follow” box
Receive daily tweets and re-tweet to your followers when you can

FEMA offers a range of online and social media portals. Visit www.fema.gov for more news and information about the Texas disaster. Other social media resources are blog.fema.gov, www.facebook.com/fema and www.youtube.com/fema.
FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. Last Modified: Thursday, 29-Sep-2011 13:10:12




Home


Contact Us


Español


Privacy Policy


Important Notices


Accessibility


Download Plug-ins


FOIA


No FEAR Act Data


USA.gov


DHS


* The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government Web sites, companies or applications.





Federal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Department of Homeland Security500 C Street SW, Washington, D.C. 20472(202) 646-2500






(800) 621-FEMA / TTY (800) 462-7585
3 Step Guide for Assistance











