Ostrow Off The Record - powered by FeedBurner
&



Ostrow Off The Record

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



True Blood season 4 finale: everything’s temporary


Posted: Mon, 12 Sep 2011 05:01:06 +0000
HBO
Spoilers ahead for Sunday’s Halloween-based season 4 finale,”And When I Die.”
Words to live by: “If we are too cute and cheesy, God’s gonna drop a brick on our heads.” That’s what Sam’s longtime love said, but it’s also what creator-producer Alan Ball and the writers must’ve been thinking at the end of the season of “True Blood.” Lots of death scenes for lots of characters, and yes, some of it deserves a falling brick.
Awfully cheesy, and of course melodramatic and hilarious, as usual. And cute, with the Halloween costumes and “Monster Mash” playing in the background at Merlotte’s. This season was not the best for “True Blood,” but fans who enjoy its knowing winks at pop culture (“zombies are the new vampires,” Arlene observed) remained loyal.
Now that Sookie (Anna Paquin) is temporarily walking away from both Bill (Stephen Moyer) and Eric (Alexander Skarsgard), now that Andy (Chris Bauer) has kicked the V habit and is and ready for romance, now that Jessica and Sam are together (but not intimate enough to let her drink his blood), now that Marnie (Fiona Shaw) is gone for good, the ghost of Jesus has counseled Lafayette to “keep breathing,” and Nan (Jessica Tuck), having quit her job as PR spokeswoman of the AVL (American Vampire League), is reduced to a pile of squishy organs…now it’s time for the heavy stuff.
Fellowship of the Sun’s Steve Newlin (Michael McMillin) is back, flashing fangs. And wait–
Tara! Is it possible? As the season closes, Tara seems to have been fatally shot, and lies lifeless in Sookie’s arms, with our favorite waitress/fairy screaming “Somebody please help us!” And guess who’s grave has been dug up, body missing? That rascal Russel Edgington! Perfect set up for what may be coming next season.
The “residual weirdness” Sookie mentioned at the start of the hour just kept piling up. And ultimately, the spirit of Sookie’s Gran Adele had the answer to the central romantic question of what should Sookie do with her love triangle? 
“The answer’s where it always has been, in your heart,” Gran said. A “Wizard of Oz” moment, give or take the legion of rising dead ancestors, and we’re all gently reminded, there’s no place like home.
Even if a chunk of the cast will missing.
“True Blood” remains a goofy guilty pleasure.




Pop culture post-9/11


Posted: Fri, 09 Sep 2011 23:52:01 +0000
FX
The pop cultural reverberations from 9/11 continue. Approaching the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11, 2001, we take stock: How “Rescue Me,” JayZ, Wilco, “Call of Duty” and more responded in the aftermath of the terror attacks. See the Denver Post entertainment staff reports, assembled here with video. 





Sorkin tackles cable TV news for HBO


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 19:20:07 +0000
John Russo
The writer who gave us soaring patriotic monologues about democracy from White House aides in “The West Wing,” who delivered smart dissertations on the American justice system in “A Few Good Men” and savvy observations about the power of new media in “The Social Network” is now set to produce a drama about cable TV news for HBO.
Aaron Sorkin, one of today’s most prolific and accomplished drama creators, gets to tackle the corporate control, the political/ideological bent, the instant gratification, the runaway egos and the rest of what makes cable news so aggravating in this as-yet-untitled project. Imagine how much material the election season holds for him.
Of course Sorkin is also the guy who misfired badly with characters speechifying about the history of entertainment in “Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip.” But his “The West Wing” and “Sports Night” before that more than make up for that failure. Besides, he has a sense of humor: he’s parodied himself doing a walk-and-talk on “30 Rock.” Priceless.
According to the HBO release:  
The series centers on a cable news anchor (Jeff Daniels), his new executive producer (Emily Mortimer), his newsroom staff (Alison Pill, John Gallagher, Jr., Olivia Munn, Dev Patel, Thomas Sadoski) and their boss (Sam Waterston). Together they set out on a patriotic and quixotic mission to do the news well in the face of corporate and commercial obstacles and their own personal entanglements.




Big changes coming to Denver TV


Posted: Thu, 08 Sep 2011 14:44:47 +0000
CBS
While the spotlight is on network primetime as the new season begins, for local stations the bigger gambles are in local and syndicated weekday programming, ie. reruns and talk shows, which is where they make their money. This fall, the post-”Oprah” syndication market brings change to the Denver TV landscape:
“Martino TV” is cancelled, with “Colorado’s Best” in its place on KDVR-Channel 31.
As previously reported, KCNC-Channel 4 dumped its failing 4 p.m. newscast in favor of “Dr. Phil,” a lucrative syndicated show it had already purchased.
“Big Bang Theory” reruns debut (on KWGN-Channel 2 at 6:30 and 10 p.m.), and “30 Rock” reruns launch (on Channel 20, at 6 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.). These are the two most expensive shows in syndication this fall.
Fox31 seems to be taking aim at women 25-54 with a bunch of judge shows (ratings-rich Judy, plus Joe Brown, Alex, “Swift Justice” and “Divorce Court”) along with “Everyday.” Meanwhile Channel 2 is going for edgier comedies (“Two and a Half Men,” “Family Guy,” “American Dad” and “King of the Hill.”)
Channel 2 picks up conservative radio talker “Bill Cunningham,” at 11 a.m.
Channel 20 puts Anderson Cooper’s new talker, “Anderson,” at 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.
KCDO-Channel 3 has added “Star Trek,” at 8 p.m., for better, and “Jerry Springer,” at 3 and 4 p.m., for worse.
Will Channel 2′s shakeup of its entire 9 a.m.-5 p.m. lineup click with viewers? Are there enough people watching TV and preferring “Friends” to local news at 5 p.m.? Remember, each station is fighting for mere tenths of a rating point in order to take in more money than they spend on syndicated product. It’s increasingly a business of wee fractions.
The stations have established their brands:
9News is news, news, news and NBC.
7News pushes investigative news, with a solid 11 a.m. newscast. And for what it’s worth, ABC.
CBS4 benefits from CBS primetime. Fox31′s brand is feeling more traditional, less Foxified. Channel 2 is rolling the dice, betting on Fox’s animation reruns. Channel 20 is Channel 9′s overflow and reserve tank. Channel 3 is vintage series plus Springer and Wendy Williams.
Meanwhile, the syndication market continues to roil. Next week, representatives from Katie Couric’s upcoming talk show will make the rounds in Denver, pitching the latest daytime contender to local station managers.




The Bold and the Beautiful does Aspen


Posted: Wed, 07 Sep 2011 00:30:57 +0000
CBS
At a time when daytime soap operas are a dying breed, “The Bold and the Beautiful” is stepping up its game: the show will be shooting in Aspen Wednesday through Friday, for episodes that will air Oct.5-11.
Scott Clifton (who plays William Spencer III, aka Liam Cooper), Jacqueline MacInnes Wood (Steffy Forrester) and Kim Matula (Hope Logan) will be in Aspen for the taping, along with locals Oliver Sharpe, Ramona Bruland and Othello Clark of PLUM TV and Jon Barnes and the Ultimate Taxi of Aspen.
The CBS serial will tape in downtown, at the Gondola and on top of Ajax. The storyline, per the network:
Having broken off her engagement with publishing heir, ‘Liam Cooper’, Forrester Creations fashion designer and ingénue, ‘Hope Logan’, quickly regrets her decision. When her step-sister, sultry vixen and Forrester heiress, ‘Steffy Forrester’, decides to move in on her man, ‘Hope’ attempts to win ‘Liam’ back.  All three find themselves in Aspen, Colorado, a stunning setting for the romantic drama that ensues.




Anderson Cooper’s first guests:  Amy Winehouse family


Posted: Tue, 06 Sep 2011 18:53:15 +0000
ANE Productions
When “Anderson,” the Anderson Cooper daytime talk show, debuts on Sept. 12, the first guests will be Amy Winehouse’s family members. According to a tweet from Cooper, her dad, mom, stepmom and stepmom’s boyfriend speak for the first time. “They’ve been through so much and her talent was so great,” he wrote.
Locally, the show has been picked up by KTVD-Channel 20 for broadcast Monday-Friday at 9 a.m. and replayed at 4 p.m. If the syndicated series looks like a hit in the ratings, managers have the option to move it to sister station KUSA-Channel 9.
While viewers are accustomed to seeing Cooper live from war zones and other hot spots, they’ll be seeing him on tape with his talk show, carrying a Phil Donahue-style microphone.




“Rescue Me” bows out with hope amid the heartbreak


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 05:59:56 +0000
FX
Farewell, guys of the 62 truck.
FX on Wednesday airs the series finale of “Rescue Me,” the television series that dealt most frankly with the emotional aftermath of 9/11.
When it premiered, three years after 9/11, this drama about New York City firemen was the first artistic endeavor to tackle the national trauma head-on in serialized storytelling form, laced with dark, sometimes juvenile humor. 
Self-destructive Tommy Gavin (Denis Leary) was the tragic hero of the piece–he had a great deal to say about the word “hero” through the years, as well as regularly questioning the concepts of faith and fate.
“Rescue Me” treated the firemen as “the walking dead,” and dramatized the survivor guilt, alcoholism, broken marriages, uncontrolled rage and addiction to danger that haunt them still. Apparitions of dead buddies rising from the ashes of 9/11 were a recurring theme, as were instances of firemen dating the widows of their fallen comrades.
The odd interplay of reality and fiction added to the impact: the presence of 9/11 artifacts (including the jacket of deceased NYFD Captain Patrick “Paddy” Brown, which Leary wore in the pilot), and scenes shot at the evolving Ground Zero site were part of the drama.
Leary and co-creator Peter Tolan planned from the beginning to end the series’ run around the time of the 10th anniversary of 9/11. They do so, offering hope amid the heartbreak.
 “I’ve always felt that the show just kept the idea of what happened on 9/11 alive,” Tolan said. “There’s an American response to things where they say, “Well, that happened, and we survived it, and it’s done. It’s over,” Tolan said, citing George Bush’s declaration of “Mission Accomplished” as an example. Rather than call it done, this show acknowledged “so many more tentacles of pain that are still being dealt with.”




Real Housewives will air as planned –with suicide prevention tips


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:51:16 +0000
NBC
Question: What could be more cynical than the humans-behaving-badly genre of “reality tv” shows?
Answer: The appropriation of a suicide prevention alert by such a reality tv show, after one of its cast members has committed suicide.
Bravo announced today it will proceed with the season premiere of “The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills” next week as planned. There had been rumblings that the network would postpone the season after Russell Armstrong’s suicide. Some said the network should cancel the season in light of some of Taylor Armstrong’s storylines.
“Bravo will proceed with the Monday, Sept. 5 premiere date of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills,” Frances Berwick, president of Bravo Media, said in a statement. “Given that these episodes were filmed months ago, the producers of the show taped a brief interview this week with several of the cast members to introduce the premiere. Re-editing of the episodes is still underway.” 
Russell Armstrong, who had taped several episodes, is expected to be edited out of the hours Bravo will telecast.
The “Housewives” show is typical of the train-wreck style of “reality” television, offering giant helpings of dysfunction for the public’s gawking pleasure. Sometimes dangerous dysfunction. Like any gladiatorial contest, people watch half hoping for an implosion. It seems a broken family dynamic, heightened by financial troubles and the pressure of living up to the moneyed expectations set by the show, led to Armstrong’s taking his life. The producers, the network, the advertisers, the on-screen players–plus anyone who watched–must share in the responsibility for this tragedy.
How far will reality TV go? When will it end? It won’t end, not until the public turns it off. And generations of carnival barkers know that will not happen. 
The best we can do is make a personal decision not to participate.
One last irony: the “Real Housewives of Beverly Hills” season premiere is slated during National Suicide Prevention Week (Sept. 4-10). 




VMA’s draw 12.4 million viewers, biggest telecast in MTV history


Posted: Tue, 30 Aug 2011 16:52:19 +0000
MTV
If you saw Lady Gaga looking like a greaser boy, Katy Perry with a geometric sculpture on her head, Beyonce showing off her baby bump, Jay-Z smiling or Chris Brown flying –you were among the 12.4 million viewers who made this year’s Video Music Awards the most-watched telecast on MTV, ever. 
Other than MTV, the night’s big winners were Perry and Adele, who took home the most Moonmen statues. 




Dancing with the Former Prosecutor


Posted: Tue, 30 Aug 2011 02:43:02 +0000
ABC
The next lineup for ABC’s “Dancing with the Stars” was revealed tonight and the biggest stunner is…Nancy Grace. The opinionated legal analyst and former prosecutor joins Carson Kressley, Chaz Bono, soccer star Hope Solo, Ricki Lake and a few notable others on Season 13.
The lineup:
Chaz Bono, child of Cher and Sonny, also the show’s first transgender contestant (focus of the documentary “Becoming Chaz,” up for three Emmys).

Nancy Grace, the outspoken legal commentator and host of her eponymous show on HLN.
Ricki Lake, the actress/author returns to the daytime talk show circuit in the fall of 2012.
Rob Kardashian, younger brother of Kourtney, Kim and Khloe, has worked as a talent manager and occasional face on the family reality shows.
David Arquette, actor and ex-husband of Courteney Cox, recently celebrated his sobriety on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.
Ron Artest, the 6-foot-7 forward from the Los Angeles Lakers is petitioning the courts to change his name to Metta World Peace.
Kristin Cavallari, the former star of MTV’s “The Hills” and “Laguna Beach.”
J.R. Martinez, “All My Children” actor and motivational speaker.
Hope Solo, the goal keeper for the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team.
Elisabetta Canalis, dumped by George Clooney. Also a recurring player on TNT’s “Leverage.”
Chynna Phillips, the Wilson Phillips crooner married to Billy Baldwin, had a cameo in “Bridesmaids.”
Carson Kressley, fashion expert best known for “Queer Eye” and “How to Look Good Naked” now has a show on OWN called Carson Nation.
“DWTS” premieres Monday, Sept. 19.






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


