Texas wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes - CBS News 
       
        


    
   CBSNews.com | CBS Evening News | The Early Show | 48 Hours | 60 Minutes | Sunday Morning | Face the Nation | Up to the Minute
    Sign In With 
Log In
|
 Register   

Your Profile
|
Log Out                    CBS News.com US     Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Tech Sports Opinion Photos  More   Popular Strange News Recipes Blogs Puzzles CBS News on Twitter Newsletters Podcasts Widgets CBS News Bios       Blogs: Political Hotsheet Crimesider HealthPop Investigates  More   WorldWatch Celebrity Circuit Tech Talk The Feed EconWatch Author Talk Eye on Parenting Crossroads     Shows: 60 Overtime What's Trending Washington Unplugged  More   The Feed      Radio Mobile                  



Scroll Left Scroll Right





Politics
Sparks fly between Perry, Romney at GOP debate
1 of 9



Gallery
9/11: Images from then and now
2 of 9



Political Hotsheet
Left behind: Why are rich and poor so far apart?
3 of 9



World
Iran condemns violent Syrian crackdown
4 of 9



Entertainment
Reese Witherspoon hit by car during jog
5 of 9



Political Hotsheet
Jon Huntsman: GOP "can't run from science"
6 of 9



What's Trending
What's Trending: Job hunting and social media
7 of 9



Gallery
Elizabeth Taylor's jewels
8 of 9



CBS Evening News
A look at United Flight 93, ten years later
9 of 9





      September 5, 2011 7:31 AM    Print Text      Texas wildfire destroys nearly 500 homes      59 Comments  Have Your Say  Email StorySend to a Friend Share ThisTell Your Friends Tweet ThisTweet This MoreShare It      .      Del.icio.us Facebook Stumbleupon   Newsvine Yahoo bookmarks Mixx   Digg Reddit Google Bookmarks   Twitter LinkedIn              Lone Camp Volunteer Fire Department chief Charlie Sims leads his crew while fighting a wildfire, Sept. 1, 2011, in Graford, Texas. (Getty)     (AP)  Updated 9:18 p.m. ET  BASTROP, Texas - A roaring wildfire raced unchecked Monday through rain-starved farm and ranchland in Central Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes during a rapid advance fanned in part by howling winds from the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.  At least 5,000 people were forced from their homes in Bastrop County about 25 miles east of Austin, and about 400 were in emergency shelters, officials said.  Strong winds and drought conditions allowed the fire to travel quickly over somewhat hilly terrain, burning through pine and cedar trees and wiping out subdivisions as well as ranchland. The blaze consumed as much as 25,000 acres along a line that stretched for about 16 miles, Texas Forest Service officials said.  Huge clouds of smoke soared into the sky and hung over downtown Bastrop, a town of about 6,000 people along the Colorado River. The fire was far enough away from Austin that the city was not threatened, officials said.  Firefighters lined up a state highway outside Bastrop and converged around homes as they caught fire, hoping to save them. Helicopters and planes loaded with water could be seen making laps to and from the fire. When winds increased, flames would flare up and pop out over the tops of trees.  The wildfire destroyed 476 homes, and about 250 firefighters were working around the clock, using bulldozers and pumper trucks against the fire, Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said.  Mike Fischer, the county emergency management director, said the fire is "nowhere near controlled," and that a separate, smaller blaze south of the city was growing larger.  "I wasn't going to evacuate, but then the smoke got blacker and blacker and it was like: `OK, time to go,"' said Gina Thurman, 47, an analyst for the Texas Workforce Commission.  "Waiting is the most frustrating thing," she said, choking back tears as she sat by herself in the shade on a curb outside Ascension Catholic Church, one of several shelter sites. "You're sitting there and you don't know anything but your house is probably burning."  Rick Blakely, 54, said when it finally would be time to return home, "I'm not expecting anything to be standing."  He was among about 30 people who slept on cots at the church.  "There was someone who asked how I was and it's a state of shock," he said. "I just don't know what I'm going to do."  The new outbreak led Gov. Rick Perry to return home to Texas, cutting short a visit to South Carolina where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination for president. He also canceled a trip to California.  Perry viewed the fire from the air and conferred with local officials. He said seeing the fire was a "surreal" experience.  "I've seen a number of big fires in my life," he said. "This is as mean looking as I've ever seen, particularly because it was so close to the city."  Since December, wildfires in Texas have claimed 3.5 million acres, an area the size of Connecticut, Perry said. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, he said.  Perry said it was too early to say whether he would attend Wednesday's GOP debate in California.  "I'm not paying attention to politics right now," he said. "There will be plenty of time for that. People's lives and their possessions are at stake, and that's substantially more important."  Authorities mobilized ground and air forces to fight the largest of at least 63 fires that broke out in Texas since Sunday as high winds from what was then Tropical Storm Lee swept into Texas, which has endured its worst drought since the 1950s.  "It's still putting up a lot of smoke and it's scary," Jan Amen, a Texas Forest Service spokeswoman said.  School and school-related activities were canceled for Tuesday.  There were no immediate reports of injuries, and officials said they knew of no residents trapped in their homes.  On Sunday, however, about 200 miles to the northeast in Gladewater, a 20-year-old woman and her 18-month-old daughter died when a fast-moving wildfire gutted their mobile home. That fire was out Monday, although several other major blazes continued to burn in at least four other counties in Central and North Texas.  At least two-thirds of the 6,000-acre Bastrop State Park, a popular getaway just east of Bastrop, had been consumed, said Mike Cox, with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. All nonessential workers had been ordered out of the park.  "All I see is a wall of smoke," Cox said from the park's front gate. The park is home to several historic rock and stone buildings constructed in the 1930s and 1940s by the Civilian Conservation Corps.  "We're desperately trying to save them," Cox said. "The fire is getting closer and closer to that part of the park."  It's also home to the Houston toad, a 2- to 4-inch toad that's been on the endangered species list since 1970.  Officials remained uncertain as to how the Bastrop blaze began, but it appeared that two fires merged to form the "monster" fire, Amen said.  To the west of Austin in Travis County, at least 20 homes were lost and 30 others were damaged in another fire. More than 1,000 homes were under mandatory evacuation and 25 lost in a third fire also in the Austin area.  Texas has experienced more than its share of destructive storms, including Hurricane Ike three years ago. The state, however, would have welcomed the rain that Tropical Storm Lee dumped on Gulf Coast states farther east.  Instead, Texas got Lee's winds, which combined with an advancing cold front to heighten the threat of blazes in a state where crews have responded to nearly 21,000 wildfires since the traditional fire season began early in the year.  Outdoor burning, including campfires and the burning of debris, is prohibited in all but three of the 254 counties in Texas.  The governor's office said at least 40 Texas Forest Service aircraft were involved in the firefighting Monday along with a half-dozen Texas military aircraft. Since the beginning of the wildfire season, local and state firefighters have responded to more than 20,900 fires burning more than 3.6 million acres.  Joyce Payne, 62, and her husband, Mac, said they fled their Bastrop-area home Sunday night, responding to orders delivered by firefighters using a loudspeaker on a truck. She said their home since 2006 now was gone.  "We had a swimming pool," she said. "Too bad there wasn't a way to pump that water back out."  She said people have told her she that should cry, and added: "I feel like crying."      © 2011 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.       59 Comments  Have Your Say  Email StorySend to a Friend Share ThisTell Your Friends Tweet ThisTweet This MoreShare It       Add a Comment  1 2 3 4 Next »  See all 59 Comments      by Jeepsrule September 6, 2011 1:34 PM EDT  I wonder what the weaselly Eric Cantor will want to cut from the budget, before the government will be allowed to help the victims of these fires in Texas.     Reply to this comment            by rnrstar September 6, 2011 10:37 AM EDT  Pray harder Rick Parry.     Reply to this comment            by omnibus66 September 6, 2011 8:03 AM EDT  Maybe God is really P.O.ed at Texas, or maybe it's just coincidence, but if you look at the drought map, it is pretty much confined to Texas and Oklahoma. Wonder what the people of Oklahoma did to deserve this?     Reply to this comment            by skyk1 September 6, 2011 7:47 AM EDT  Maybe someone should tell Rick the Trick that God doesn't like Religious Bigots?     Reply to this comment            by X2670 September 6, 2011 7:39 AM EDT  Overpopulation, Over building. Too many people and too many structures. Slow down the procreation and let the earth catch up to people's destruction of it. Skip a generation and quit being in love with yourselves so much that you have to propagate the herd in mass quanities.     Reply to this comment            by rednecklogic September 6, 2011 2:14 AM EDT  I thought god controlled all things. He certainly doesn't like texas. What have they done wrong?     Reply to this comment           by imnotimportant September 6, 2011 6:43 AM EDT  elected perry after bush                         by tvwatcher5345 September 6, 2011 12:53 AM EDT  there shall be neither dew nor rain (1 kings chap 17 v 1), sounds like texas to me, and now enter the high priest of baal, rick perry     Reply to this comment            by Newster1 September 6, 2011 12:43 AM EDT  Too bad the bush regime's ranch estate isnt on fire... with him IN it!     Reply to this comment            by vpcharan September 5, 2011 10:46 PM EDT  There you go. Mother nature has once again blessed the great state of Texas and its people. Fire from heaven is destroying homes and agricultural land. This provides opportunities to create more jobs. This is what we need in all the fifty states. Such events are rare, but when they occur they come with the good blessings for good things to follow.     Reply to this comment            by far_point200 September 5, 2011 10:20 PM EDT  Where is the Obamanation, campaigning? He went to the east coast after the hurricane and then another vacation to Camp David, why doesn't he come here to Texas? If your scared too Mr. Obamanation, at least be a man enough and admit it!     Reply to this comment           by netjunkie1 September 5, 2011 10:33 PM EDT  Probably because the real trajedy that is Texas hasn't yet fully bloomed.                      by far_point200 September 5, 2011 10:51 PM EDT  To what, the parasitc behavior of the socialists?                   See all 4 Replies     1 2 3 4 Next »  See all 59 Comments     Add a comment     Subscribe to this comment thread by email  SUBMIT         Click here to add another comment.   The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.          Comment reply         Subscribe to this comment thread by email  Submit Cancel    The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.     Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense:  Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language  Spam: Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts  Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users  Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content  Off-topic: Commentary unrelated to the storyline Comments (optional):       Report Cancel     E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to:  Your e-mail address:   Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it.      Send e-mail Cancel        .      Del.icio.us Facebook Stumbleupon   Newsvine Yahoo bookmarks Mixx   Digg Reddit Google Bookmarks   Twitter LinkedIn       




Popular Now in National


28 Photos
9/11: Then and now


39 Photos
"Historic" Texas wildfires


26 Photos
Surf's up! Monster waves hit Calif.





4 dead, including shooter, in Nev. IHOP attack 
Cops: Man severs artery during break-in, dies 
Texas wildfires torched 1,000 homes in past week 
Feds tout largest Medicare fraud bust ever 
Texas wildfires reach Austin, threaten to spread 
NH church rape convict gets 15-30 years 
Crane collapses at National Cathedral in D.C. 
More than 1K homes now destroyed in Texas fires 
R.I. teens killed after visiting "vampire" grave 
Officer who had sex on car fired by NM police 
No charges for N.M. cop caught having sex on car 
Officer shot, 1 killed near NYC parade route 
Defense chief: Threat of 9/11 repeat "very real" 
Lee's remnants soak Appalachia; Threats persist 
Boy throws rocks at cars, shot by crossbow 
Shanksville "battlefield" now a pilgrimage site 
Shoes on at airport security? Napolitano sees it 



Latest CBS News Headlines

No fallout seen from big solar eruption
Uribe accused of paramilitary ties
UN chief calls for urgent action on climate change
DEA to ban so-called "bath salts" drugs

Popular CBS News Stories on Facebook

Should sex be mandatory in marriage?
Does pot prevent obesity? What new marijuana study says
Left behind in America: Who's to blame for the wealth divide?
Russia jet crash kills 43, many top hockey stars
Rockstep: guitarist shreds dubstep jam "Cinema (Skrillex Remix)" by Benny Benassi

Most Discussed Stories on CBS News


"No containment" of Texas wildfire


Facing default, Postal Service turns to Congress


Obama: Times are tough "but we're tougher"


Should sex be mandatory in marriage?


Feds tout largest Medicare fraud bust ever



 
 

  



   


Most Popular on CBS News


Stories
More »




01Tonight's GOP debate: 5 things to watch



02Should sex be mandatory in marriage?



03Russia jet crash kills 43, many top hockey stars



04Ark. man found dead in hot tub with TV weather man



05Mitt Romney, Rick Perry spar at GOP debate






























Videos
More »



01Giant shark off San Diego shore


02The marble of our heroes' headstones


03Fried bubble gum at the Texas State Fair







16 Photos |  View Gallery »
W. Va. spree shooter kills 5, then self



14 Photos |  View Gallery »
Day in pictures



9 Photos |  View Gallery »
Busted! 8 mammogram truths every woman must know



60 Photos |  View Gallery »
America's 11 most endangered historic places



15 Photos |  View Gallery »
Amanda Knox personal photos




Scroll Left


Scroll Right
More »



   







 CBS News on Facebook              

  CBS News Copyright © 2011 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.              CBSNews.com Site Map Video Site Map Mobile/WAP Site Help Contact Us CBS Bios Careers Internships Development Programs  


Topics
China
United Nations
Social Security
North Korea
Terrorism
Capital Punishment
Immigration
Gay Marriage


Foreclosures
Debt Crisis
Massacre in Norway
Election 2012
Marijuana
Rupert Murdoch


 Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Email Newsletters YouTube CBS Mobile 


CBS News Mobile

CBS News for Android


The CBS News app for Android smartphones offers breaking headlines and video as well as the latest from The Early Show, 60 Minutes and more.

Learn more...



    Visit other CBS Interactive sites:  Select Site BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet     BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet   Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement About CBS Advertise   



    

                 