7 Unusual Ways to Save Money - Yahoo! Canada Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Canada Finance              Search   Search Web       






Home
Investing
Market Stats
Canada Indices
Currencies
US Indices
World Indices
Price Gainers
Price Losers
Advances & Declines


News

Top Stories
Stock Market
International
Earnings
Commodities
Currencies
Video
Economy
All News
Technology
Bonds



My PortfoliosSign in to access My Portfolios


Perfect Cents
Saving and Budgeting
Investing
Spending
Borrowing







Search for share prices
Search for share prices

Sat Sep 10, 2011 7:35AM EDT - Canadian Markets closed









7 Unusual Ways to Save Money













Tom Sightings, 	On Tuesday September 6, 2011, 1:34 pm EDT

Most of us don't have the option to suddenly go out and make more money. Either we're retired on a fixed income, or we're settled into a job with small and predictable or nonexistent salary increases. So how do you put more cash in your pocket? Work the other side of the equation: Cut expenses.[See One Move Could Boost Your Retirement Security.]You can do that one of two ways. You can watch your pennies, never splurge, trade down on food, and beat back any generous impulse you have to overtip or contribute to a charity. Or, instead of penny pinching, you can find clever ways to save money that won't reduce your quality of life and will still allow you to be expansive and generous. The key is to cut back where it doesn't hurt, and where you're paying out, but not getting much back. Here are six ideas:1.  Go out to lunch. Everyone likes to go out to a restaurant. No one has to cook or do the dishes. The secret ingredient is to go out for breakfast or lunch instead of dinner. You get the same benefits at half the cost. You're less likely to buy overpriced alcoholic beverages earlier in the day, and you won't feel like you're a poor pensioner who can only afford to eat dinner at the 5 o'clock special.2. Don't pay for stuff you don't use. Cancel the premium TV package if you really don't watch much TV. Downgrade your cell phone service if you don't use the minutes, texting, or data plan. Consider canceling your life insurance if you have no dependents. Cancel your health club membership, and instead take a morning walk around the neighborhood. You might even meet a few neighbors while you're at it.[See 10 Places to Buy a Retirement Home for Under $100,000.]3. Forget fees from financial firms. Get rid of check-writing and ATM fees at the bank, annual fees on your credit card, and high expense ratios on your mutual funds. You get no benefit from these charges. And doesn't it make you feel good that you're not letting the bank take advantage of you?4.  If you're going to gamble, do it with friends, not at gambling establishments like a casino, off-track betting, or state lottery, And certainly don't gamble through a bookie. They give you crummy odds and take 5 to 10 percent off the top.5.  Buy more things that have gone up less than inflation, and fewer things that have gone up more. One obvious example is technology. You can buy a good computer or TV for half the price you used to pay. You can get a better car for less money than you could 15 or 20 years ago. Meanwhile, spend less on energy, vacations, housing, and health care if you can. The prices for all these items have skyrocketed. Want to go back to school in retirement? Forget the price-gouging private colleges. Your state university is a much better bargain, and community college is even more affordable.6. Make it a sport. You can buy a book for full price at Barnes & Noble. But you can probably get a better deal from Amazon, Costco, or a used book store. In retirement you have time to look around and compare all the options. Maybe there's a better price on a website or at an outlet store. Think of bargain hunting as a game. The seller is trying to get you to pay a high price. You're going for a low price. Play the game, and be a winner.[See Why You Can't Invest Like Warren Buffett.]7. Don't be embarrassed to use your discount. At age 55 you start getting senior citizen discounts at the multiplex or the municipal golf course. You get more discounts at 62, and again at 65. Get over any reluctance to use these discounts.  Nobody else cares how old you are and not speaking up will cost you money.Tom Sightings is a former publishing executive who was eased into early retirement in his mid-50s. He lives in the New York area and blogs at Sightings at 60, where he covers health, finance, retirement, and other concerns of baby boomers who realize that somehow they have grown up.








 

83 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 83First PrevNextLast
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment LOVELY N' PLEASANT 6 hours ago Report Abuse stop using credit cards,stop shopping nonsense stuff,stop eating in the restaurant,just cook at home.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Gary K 8 hours ago Report Abuse I takes a long time for university to beat trade school. a tradeperson in a 4 year apprenticeship spends maybe $1500 per year for 4 years and only goes to school a maximum of 10 weeks per year, earning a wage the rest of the year. Plus most trades get EI while they are in school. so fter 4 years they have a debt load of about $6K and are makeing $25-$45 per hour. That adds up to $50,000-90,000 per year.

Not only will a University education cost you around $20k per year in tuition and books, plus living costs, you will have next to no income for 4 years and huge debt/interest load. It will take a long time to catch up to the tradesperson teaching school. And a doctor or laweyer takes more than 4 years.

I figure between tuition,books,living expenses, and lost wages it cost me roughly $250,000 to get my Education degree. And that was 10 years ago. I also have a trade ticket. I would be alot farther ahead if I would have just taken a trade and stuck with it.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment caramel1473 9 hours ago Report Abuse the government (in Canada) will pay 2500$ for funeral cost in case if you croak ...
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment caramel1473 9 hours ago Report Abuse life insurance? more like death insurance. life insurance is only good when you're dead.
 




0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this commentA Yahoo! User 10 hours ago Report Abuse Tell me they're not serious. Who wrote this? A professional Encyclopedia Dramatica editor? Why not write about how counting cards saves you money when gambling and that if you have more children and don't work, you get more Welfare money?
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Donna 18 hours ago Report Abuse Start preserving your own fruit and vegetables by visiting local farmer markets, or if you have the room plant a garden. Even your local grocery stores have great prices when fruit and vegetables are in season. If you are worried about somebody having to pay for your funeral make your own arrangements now and start paying on a plan from the funeral home of your choice. Cancel your life insurance because if you add up the premiums you have paid over the years, you will be paying for muliple funerals, unless you want to leave other people your hard earned money. Most restaurants are only a 2 star rating so make your own meals, save money plus eat healthier. Plan a budget and stick with it and always pay yourself first. Money not seen is money not spent.
 



4 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
4 users disliked this comment Lacey Long 19 hours ago Report Abuse Best advice from this article: 

- Cancel Life Insurance. 

Because saving 15/month is better than an untimely death costing your family 4-10 grand. 

- Gamble with Friends

Because gambling is cheap? What happens if you dont? oh wait? that means ZERO money lost.

- Eat Lunch instead of Dinner

Whatever happened to spending 15 dollars on a lunchbox? That's all my lunches cost me, and that was a one time thing.

- Spend less on Housing

So those new windows that will cut my energy bill by 1/3 was a bad idea? Thanks so much for the advice!

- Spend less on healthcare

I sure hope they mean insurance. I'd love to have this convo with my daughter: MOMMY I BROKE MY LEG! No, sorry honey, we're cutting back on broken legs this month. 

- Go to community college over state University. 

I live in Canada. If you want to be a doctor, make 80 grand/year plus, then yeah, University is kinda   a requirement. You could go to community college for a trade, or a secretary, all starting at 12/hour. Wait a second... So... in 1 year... the course has paid itself off as a doctor... Who's saving what now?

On a brighter note, this "advice" has given me the laugh of the day.
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment sdcsdbt 20 hours ago Report Abuse Saving money is easy, I'm a great reader the library is the best deal in town, go to garage sales, I always check flyers and price match.   I buy from Goodwill, just bought 2 king size bed sheets, very goods one for $4.00.   I always use the senior discount.   Get Netflix lots of movies and tv shows, not uptodate particularly but lots to watch.
 



5 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment HEAds 21 hours ago Report Abuse They can't be serious with article are they? It must be a joke. My tip is if you want to save money, spend less of it. Not sure if you guys have heard this tip before or not, so I thought I would post my genius idea here.
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment missy1972 22 hours ago Report Abuse Check grocery store flyers and get what's on sale at a few of them, libraries have free books, by classic pieces of clothing so you don't have to constantly update each season, go to places that have discout cards or point cards (eg. i'm saving 5 cents a liter at petro), pay off credit cards right away or buy with cash, negotiate your credit card % (i called visa and now pay 9.5%, not 18), fill your car early in the morning so you get more gas because the ground is cooler, reusable and refillable water bottles, buyign in bulk, bundle discounts for keeping cable, internet and phones at one company, $ store for odds and ends (lightbulbs, batteries, etc), do-it yourself projects, shopping craigslist or kijiji, garage sales.

Comments 1 - 10 of 83First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                







More From Provider



The 10 Most Difficult Retirement Decisions U.S.News & World Report 10 Fast-Growing Retirement Spots U.S.News & World Report Find Your Best Place to Retire U.S.News & World Report




Brands

 
 

Looking beyond Abercrombie & Fitch's 'Situation'

- Motley Fool




 The company's gotten embroiled in so many image fiascos that any attempt to conduct an Internet search for "Abercrombie scandal" requires one to be more specific. 

 
 

Twitter in no hurry to file IPO

- The Canadian Press




 Expect to see more ads flowing through Twitter's stream of tweets in the coming weeks, but don't go looking for IPO news. 

 
 

Price hikes minimal for Lululemon customers

- AllThingsD




 Fitnesswear retailer Lululemon Athletica Inc. said Thursday that it will pass some of its higher costs on to customers but only on certain clothing items. 

 
  
                            Groupon hit with lawsuit from its employees
                         - PaidContent.org   
                            Sony, Panasonic, Samsung join forces
                         - Motley Fool   
                            McDonald's sales fall short of predictions
                         - The Canadian Press  







Perfect Cents

 
 

What it really costs to borrow money

- Investor Education Fund




 Even at the same rate, the interest on a mortgage is completely different from a credit card. 

 
  
                            Are you investing or gambling?
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Be cautious when investing in gold
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Hidden vacation fees to watch for
                         - Investopedia   
                            Quit smoking, save money - no kidding
                         - MoneySense  

Visit Perfect Cents »


Careers

 
 

Government won't spend to stop job losses

- The Canadian Press




 Canada's job creation engine has stalled, but the federal government is giving no hints it is preparing to intervene. 

 
  
                            Surefire ways to not get the job
                         - US News & World Report   
                            How to dress like an entrepreneur
                         - Entrepreneur   
                            10 signs you have a bad boss
                         - US News & World Report   
                            The cure for those who hate self-promotion
                         - Forbes  




Real Estate

 
 

Remodel your bathroom on the cheap

- Bankrate




 You can gut a bathroom and spend thousands of dollars renovating it, or you can save money on bathroom remodeling by sticking to a budget. 

 
  
                            Board deflecting anti-competitive concerns: Watchdog
                           
                            Renovations that add real value to your home
                           
                            Easy ways to cut your mortgage costs
                          




CEO Clips

 
 

 More from CEO Clips





 Executive interviews from leaders of Canadian industry. 

 





Subscribe to Topics



Top Stories 
					


 



 











© Copyright 2010 U.S.News & World Report, L.P






Yahoo! Canada Finance

Investing
Stocks News
Commodities News
Market Stats
Currency Converter
Quotes Lookup


Y! Canada Finance for mobile
Top Stories
Finance Videos
Finance News
Currency
See Your Portfolio



Also on Yahoo! Canada

Answers
Autos
Entertainment
Flickr
Games
Groups
Horoscopes


Shine
Maps
Messenger
Mail
Music
News
Personals


Sports
Travel
Weather
Yahoo! Canada Mobile
Y! Canada Home Page
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Order Annual Reports
Mortgage News
Finance on Your Phone
News - Most Popular
News
Site Map




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data, daily updates, fundAnalyst estimates data provided by Thomson Financial Network. All data povided by Thomson Financial Network is based solely upon research information provided by third party analysts. Yahoo! has not reviewed, and in no way endorses the validity of such data. Yahoo! and ThomsonFN shall not be liable for any actions taken in reliance thereon.



1184550258








