McDonald's Canada to spend $1 billion to renovate stores - Yahoo! Canada Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Canada Finance              Search   Search Web       






Home
Investing
Market Stats
Canada Indices
Currencies
US Indices
World Indices
Price Gainers
Price Losers
Advances & Declines


News

Top Stories
Stock Market
International
Earnings
Commodities
Currencies
Video
Economy
All News
Technology
Bonds



My PortfoliosSign in to access My Portfolios


Perfect Cents
Saving and Budgeting
Investing
Spending
Borrowing







Search for share prices
Search for share prices

Sat Sep 10, 2011 7:36AM EDT - Canadian Markets closed









McDonald's Canada to spend $1 billion to renovate stores







Topics:

EarningsCommoditiesStocks 








John Betts, President and Chief Executive Officer of McDonald's Canada, is pictured in one of the franchises' Toronto restaurants on Monday, September 6, 2011. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Chris Young






Mary Gazze, The Canadian Press, 	On Wednesday September 7, 2011, 10:45 am EDT

By Mary Gazze, The Canadian Press
              TORONTO - McDonald's is spending $1 billion to renovate all its Canadian locations in an effort to look cozier as the fast food giant raises the stakes to grab more customers.
The fast food giant is spending the massive amount of money to spruce up 1,400 stores by next year — tearing out the old plastic interiors, and replacing them with leather furniture, plasma televisions and fireplaces.
The announcement, made Wednesday, follows a similar facelift program announced in the United States earlier this year. The chain says it's a response to changing customer habits in Canada's $19-billion per year fast food industry. Consumers increasingly hang out in environments akin to coffee shop Starbucks which offers sofas and free wireless Internet.
"People tend to linger a little bit more in restaurants today. They want to enjoy their meals take a break from the busy lifestyle that they lead and we think our restaurants today are certainly doing that a lot better than in the past," McDonald's Canada CEO John Betts said.
The Canadian redesigns are based on formats used by McDonald's in Australia and parts of Europe. Construction is complete in some restaurants in Toronto and Montreal, and Betts said renovated stores have already succeeded in bringing in more customers.   
"The business we've been enjoying from our reimaged restaurants or remodelled restaurants is close to double digits," he told The Canadian Press in an interview at one of the renovated stores in Toronto's east end.
That's higher foot traffic than the average. Analysts say annual growth in the quick service restaurant industry is normally between two and three per cent per year. 
Betts added that while the chain is making the restaurants more comfortable and inviting, it is also increasing fire power in the kitchen to offer new menu items, is enlarging the drive thrus to make them more convenient, and will add McCafe products to a "large portion" of those stores. That includes fruit smoothies, pastries and higher-end coffees like lattes. 
McDonald's said its renovations are a response to customer and store owner feedback. Remodelling stores is just another way the company is keeping up with changing times as it tries to shed its old fashioned image and become a healthy and hip hangout.
Accordingly, the chain has introduced new menu items like oatmeal and grilled chicken wraps, and offers free wireless Internet access across Canada. This month, McDonald's Canada also said it would revamp its children's Happy Meal by adding a serving of strawberry yogurt and a smaller, 31-gram serving of fries that contains 100 calories.
Retail analyst Brian Yarbrough of Edward Jones said a cross-country renovation that includes McCafes is the right business move as McDonald's tries to better serve changing customer tastes in Canada's "cutthroat" fast food industry, where players face heavy competition from long-established chains.
"I think retailers are always are looking to innovate and move forward, because if you stay stale, the next thing you know, another competitor will be taking your customers," he said, but added that while renovations may bring new customers in, what's more important is having innovative products that will keep them coming back.
He said McDonald's Canada is nowhere near to matching the stronghold it has in the breakfast market in the United States, and while McDonald's is trying hard to achieve the same results in Canada, it is has so far been unable to chip away at Tim Hortons' (TSX:THI) dominance in the coffee industry. Meanwhile, analysts keep pressing Tim Hortons about the growing McCafe presence in Canada.
Tim Hortons has said it plans to "vigorously defend'' its position as the coffee market leader in Canada as competition from quick service restaurants like McDonald's heats up while they all try to capture a bigger share of the lucrative breakfast and snack markets.
McDonald's has given away 50 million free cups of coffee in the last two and a half years in an attempt to steal away market share from Tims, which Yarbrough said dominates 45 per cent of breakfast sales.
McDonald's isn't the only quick service restaurant to get a facelift as it fights for customers.
In June, Soul Restaurants Canada Inc., the new operator of more than 200 KFC restaurants in Ontario and British Columbia announced an "aggressive renovation initiative" but didn't provide further details.
Burger King has begun swapping its generic fast-food feel for sleek interiors with rotating chandeliers and TV-screen menus and "burger bars," — some of which serve alcohol — aiming for a vibe that's more sit-down than drive-through at its worldwide 12,000 locations.
Meanwhile, some Canadian malls and retailers have launched their own renovations in time for 2012.
Major U.S. retailers, department stores and mall moguls are starting their Canadian renovations now so they will be ready in time for 2012, when consumers are expected to begin opening their wallets wider, creating huge demand for new shops and outlets as the economy is expected to grow.








 

282 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 282First PrevNextLast
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment John 2 hours ago Report Abuse McDonald's food is not good food for the average person.   I used to work there as a kid, and did  
not like the food, it is cheaper in the US.   They sell 50 nuggets for 9 bucks, no wonder
US people are fat as hell!
 




1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this commentA Yahoo! User 5 hours ago Report Abuse What do immigrants have to do with McDonald's renovations? You people complain so @#$% much! The immigrants are taking over, they don't know good English, they are taking all our jobs. Whatever! I came to this country as an immigrant,educated myself, worked two jobs on the side to achieve my dreams and i pay tax like everyone else and my English is excellent so enough about this immigrants crap if you want something go out and work hard for it don't sit on your @#$% complaining cause you see me achieving my dreams.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment michael 5 hours ago Report Abuse mcdonalds should be banned for people under 21, take back your health!!!
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment ihaveseenem 5 hours ago Report Abuse What the hell is going on?   This is the second time my post has been removed, on different stories too!!. Are you scared of my opinion sysop? When did you start censoring legitimate comments? I will stop giving my opinions on Yahoo if it happens again!! I'm ready to move to Gmail as it is, I already have opened a account with them. Yahoo mail sucks big time since it started using the stupid Beta format!!
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Johnny C 7 hours ago Report Abuse mcdonalds is awesome bring back the party room for the kids mcdonalds is more for the kids every kid i know loves mcdonalds become more kid friendly kids dont drink coffee focus on a better kids menu
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment jack123 9 hours ago Report Abuse bring in the dollar value menu like in the US and you will have me there. $1.39 plus HST for the same thing you can get in the states for a dollar is disgraceful.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Hank 10 hours ago Report Abuse I agree with Delaram G, You don't need to watch TV in McDonalds
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment g 10 hours ago Report Abuse Still fastfood , maybe fix up the PlayPlaces too.
I would rather get coffee from a private shop or little chain.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
3 users disliked this comment Scully 10 hours ago Report Abuse Just gonna result in more ignorant foreigners lingering around an already crappy fast food restaurant!!! Might as well bring on the free WiFi too....all the cockroaches will gather!
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
4 users disliked this comment PanisPeterless 10 hours ago Report Abuse they just fixed up their friggen restaurants, if you had better food your store sales wouldn't be slipping, that mcrib this time around was mc crap, it didn't even taste like a rib sandwich... what do you expect when you have a 15 year old cooking your food, the southwestern isn't bad, but most of all the other food sucks, your fires are cut so thin by the time i get to eat my food the fries are soggy and cold.here's the best part they bring out food for a limited time..... then it's gone.

putting fireplaces and leather furniture isn't going to attract anything, i see within a week then furniture will be all cut up and soiled with food

i can think of a better way of spending a billion bucks.....

why don't ya ask the public what they like, come out with some different food, and stick with that food

Comments 1 - 10 of 282First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                







Top Stories




Report says India overtakes Canada in space competitiveness in 2010 - The Canadian Press


Italian finance minister: further measures may be needed on top of current austerity package - The Canadian Press


G7 finance officials to speed aid to Arab democracies, kickstart Libyan oil production - The Canadian Press


China's import, export growth strengthened in August; surplus narrows to $17.8 billion - The Canadian Press






Brands

 
 

Looking beyond Abercrombie & Fitch's 'Situation'

- Motley Fool




 The company's gotten embroiled in so many image fiascos that any attempt to conduct an Internet search for "Abercrombie scandal" requires one to be more specific. 

 
 

Twitter in no hurry to file IPO

- The Canadian Press




 Expect to see more ads flowing through Twitter's stream of tweets in the coming weeks, but don't go looking for IPO news. 

 
 

Price hikes minimal for Lululemon customers

- AllThingsD




 Fitnesswear retailer Lululemon Athletica Inc. said Thursday that it will pass some of its higher costs on to customers but only on certain clothing items. 

 
  
                            Groupon hit with lawsuit from its employees
                         - PaidContent.org   
                            Sony, Panasonic, Samsung join forces
                         - Motley Fool   
                            McDonald's sales fall short of predictions
                         - The Canadian Press  







Perfect Cents

 
 

What it really costs to borrow money

- Investor Education Fund




 Even at the same rate, the interest on a mortgage is completely different from a credit card. 

 
  
                            Are you investing or gambling?
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Be cautious when investing in gold
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Hidden vacation fees to watch for
                         - Investopedia   
                            Quit smoking, save money - no kidding
                         - MoneySense  

Visit Perfect Cents »


Careers

 
 

Government won't spend to stop job losses

- The Canadian Press




 Canada's job creation engine has stalled, but the federal government is giving no hints it is preparing to intervene. 

 
  
                            Surefire ways to not get the job
                         - US News & World Report   
                            How to dress like an entrepreneur
                         - Entrepreneur   
                            10 signs you have a bad boss
                         - US News & World Report   
                            The cure for those who hate self-promotion
                         - Forbes  




Real Estate

 
 

Remodel your bathroom on the cheap

- Bankrate




 You can gut a bathroom and spend thousands of dollars renovating it, or you can save money on bathroom remodeling by sticking to a budget. 

 
  
                            Board deflecting anti-competitive concerns: Watchdog
                           
                            Renovations that add real value to your home
                           
                            Easy ways to cut your mortgage costs
                          




CEO Clips

 
 

 More from CEO Clips





 Executive interviews from leaders of Canadian industry. 

 





Subscribe to Topics



Top Stories 
					


 



 



Earnings



 



 



Commodities



 



 



Stocks



 



 

















Yahoo! Canada Finance

Investing
Stocks News
Commodities News
Market Stats
Currency Converter
Quotes Lookup


Y! Canada Finance for mobile
Top Stories
Finance Videos
Finance News
Currency
See Your Portfolio



Also on Yahoo! Canada

Answers
Autos
Entertainment
Flickr
Games
Groups
Horoscopes


Shine
Maps
Messenger
Mail
Music
News
Personals


Sports
Travel
Weather
Yahoo! Canada Mobile
Y! Canada Home Page
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Order Annual Reports
Mortgage News
Finance on Your Phone
News - Most Popular
News
Site Map




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data, daily updates, fundAnalyst estimates data provided by Thomson Financial Network. All data povided by Thomson Financial Network is based solely upon research information provided by third party analysts. Yahoo! has not reviewed, and in no way endorses the validity of such data. Yahoo! and ThomsonFN shall not be liable for any actions taken in reliance thereon.



1184550396








