Job growth slips by 5,500 as unemployment rate edges up to 7.3 per cent - Yahoo! Canada Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Canada Finance              Search   Search Web       






Home
Investing
Market Stats
Canada Indices
Currencies
US Indices
World Indices
Price Gainers
Price Losers
Advances & Declines


News

Top Stories
Stock Market
International
Earnings
Commodities
Currencies
Video
Economy
All News
Technology
Bonds



My PortfoliosSign in to access My Portfolios


Perfect Cents
Saving and Budgeting
Investing
Spending
Borrowing







Search for share prices
Search for share prices

Sat Sep 10, 2011 7:36AM EDT - Canadian Markets closed









Job growth slips by 5,500 as unemployment rate edges up to 7.3 per cent







Topics:

Earnings 














The Canadian Press, 	On Friday September 9, 2011, 9:01 am EDT

By The Canadian Press
              OTTAWA - Statistics Canada says the country lost jobs for the first time in five months as the unemployment rate also edged up one tenth of a point to 7.3 per cent in August.
The loss of jobs was small at 5,500, but it makes the second straight month that job creation was virtually flat in Canada.
That was also below the economists' consensus, who had expected a modest 21,500 pick-up.
The good news was that there was a modest gain in full-time employment of 25,700, with part-time work declining by 31,200.








 

59 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 59First PrevNextLast
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Paul 3 hours ago Report Abuse We better not end up becoming like America who is right now having huge trouble with its economy.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Anonymous 4 hours ago Report Abuse LOL at those who think the job losses are based on the fact that school starting is the cause .

The economic slow-down hasn't happened since yesterday . This has began since quite a while ago. First of all , the last '' economic stimulation ''(since last recession) has put more Canadians in debt than ever before based on lax monetary and lax fiscal policy . Also the so called artificial economic lift based on the '' economic stimulation '' is unsustainable .

 There has been an extreme rise in inflation since the last recession . Inflation weighs on consumer spending . Demand begins to drop . Demand dropping means less production . Less production means less hours worked and less labourers needed . It's just the beginning . Consumers are holding onto their cash now , especially since the markets started to scare consumers in late July .

When consumer sentiment becomes pessemistic they look for '' safe havens '' such as Bonds , consumers staples , health care , utilities , Gold (precious metals ) . What happened in those sectors since February 2011 , versus the markets in general ?

Lately the Bank Of Canada was facing a liquidity trap and began quatitative easing . Eventually you're going to have to face the music . And it isn't pretty .

In conclusion , Consumers in general are way over their heads in debt , inflation is insane since the last recession ,consumer sentiment is not optimistic , markets are down and the Bank Of Canada is quatitative easing based on a liquidity trap . And you believe that the job losses are based on school starting ???
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment semajppat 6 hours ago Report Abuse This happens every year when students go back to school. And then after schools out in late spring Whala!   job increases! I agree with "M'
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment FY 6 hours ago Report Abuse Are we in trouble? At least is lower than 9.1%. Hehe.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment andrewgib 7 hours ago Report Abuse dont follow salary standard. put made in c only that way consumer well know its made in china even though its made in canada
 



1 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
2 users disliked this comment MC 7 hours ago Report Abuse one tenth of a percent of 31 million is 31000 if only 16000 of them are working age that means 10500 unemployed immegrants where allowed in our country last month
 



4 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Concerned 7 hours ago Report Abuse Welcome to N.A.F.T.A. and privatization. The US and all the rich CEO's from Canada got what they wanted. They get raw resources and big money and the local, lower working class, get screwed with the high taxes and high un-employment rates.
Thanks for nothing
 



5 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
3 users disliked this comment Jeb 7 hours ago Report Abuse There's lots of work,you just need to get out there and look for it,it's there.
 



10 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
2 users disliked this comment E.J. 8 hours ago Report Abuse we are shopping ourselves out of a job...stop buying foreign!!!!
support local and retain our economy or else we will end up being a third world soon!!
wake up everyone!!!
 



9 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
2 users disliked this comment Taxed2death 9 hours ago Report Abuse Thats alright Dalton want to give employers 10000 bucks tax rebate if you hire someone right off the boat never mind the unemployed that have paid taxes for the last thirty years.I hope Harper does some bigtime changes in the near future and shuts down immigration for a while.

Comments 1 - 10 of 59First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                







Top Stories




Report says India overtakes Canada in space competitiveness in 2010 - The Canadian Press


Italian finance minister: further measures may be needed on top of current austerity package - The Canadian Press


G7 finance officials to speed aid to Arab democracies, kickstart Libyan oil production - The Canadian Press


China's import, export growth strengthened in August; surplus narrows to $17.8 billion - The Canadian Press






Brands

 
 

Looking beyond Abercrombie & Fitch's 'Situation'

- Motley Fool




 The company's gotten embroiled in so many image fiascos that any attempt to conduct an Internet search for "Abercrombie scandal" requires one to be more specific. 

 
 

Twitter in no hurry to file IPO

- The Canadian Press




 Expect to see more ads flowing through Twitter's stream of tweets in the coming weeks, but don't go looking for IPO news. 

 
 

Price hikes minimal for Lululemon customers

- AllThingsD




 Fitnesswear retailer Lululemon Athletica Inc. said Thursday that it will pass some of its higher costs on to customers but only on certain clothing items. 

 
  
                            Groupon hit with lawsuit from its employees
                         - PaidContent.org   
                            Sony, Panasonic, Samsung join forces
                         - Motley Fool   
                            McDonald's sales fall short of predictions
                         - The Canadian Press  







Perfect Cents

 
 

What it really costs to borrow money

- Investor Education Fund




 Even at the same rate, the interest on a mortgage is completely different from a credit card. 

 
  
                            Are you investing or gambling?
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Be cautious when investing in gold
                         - US News & World Report   
                            Hidden vacation fees to watch for
                         - Investopedia   
                            Quit smoking, save money - no kidding
                         - MoneySense  

Visit Perfect Cents »


Careers

 
 

Government won't spend to stop job losses

- The Canadian Press




 Canada's job creation engine has stalled, but the federal government is giving no hints it is preparing to intervene. 

 
  
                            Surefire ways to not get the job
                         - US News & World Report   
                            How to dress like an entrepreneur
                         - Entrepreneur   
                            10 signs you have a bad boss
                         - US News & World Report   
                            The cure for those who hate self-promotion
                         - Forbes  




Real Estate

 
 

Remodel your bathroom on the cheap

- Bankrate




 You can gut a bathroom and spend thousands of dollars renovating it, or you can save money on bathroom remodeling by sticking to a budget. 

 
  
                            Board deflecting anti-competitive concerns: Watchdog
                           
                            Renovations that add real value to your home
                           
                            Easy ways to cut your mortgage costs
                          




CEO Clips

 
 

 More from CEO Clips





 Executive interviews from leaders of Canadian industry. 

 





Subscribe to Topics



Top Stories 
					


 



 



Earnings



 



 

















Yahoo! Canada Finance

Investing
Stocks News
Commodities News
Market Stats
Currency Converter
Quotes Lookup


Y! Canada Finance for mobile
Top Stories
Finance Videos
Finance News
Currency
See Your Portfolio



Also on Yahoo! Canada

Answers
Autos
Entertainment
Flickr
Games
Groups
Horoscopes


Shine
Maps
Messenger
Mail
Music
News
Personals


Sports
Travel
Weather
Yahoo! Canada Mobile
Y! Canada Home Page
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Order Annual Reports
Mortgage News
Finance on Your Phone
News - Most Popular
News
Site Map




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data, daily updates, fundAnalyst estimates data provided by Thomson Financial Network. All data povided by Thomson Financial Network is based solely upon research information provided by third party analysts. Yahoo! has not reviewed, and in no way endorses the validity of such data. Yahoo! and ThomsonFN shall not be liable for any actions taken in reliance thereon.



1184550396








