TEXAS TASK FORCE 1 DEPLOYS TO BASTROP COUNTY - Fire Engineering




























FE NETWORK:
Fire Life
FE University
Urban Firefighter
Fire Apparatus Magazine



About UslAdvertisinglMagazinelNewsletterlContact Usl






































 








 


















 






 






Home



FDIC


Product Center


Product Videos


Fire Life


FE University


Urban Firefighter


TAK Response


iPhone App


Courage & Valor


Buyer's Guide


Advertise


Classifieds





Training



Drills


Simulations


Instructor Development


Live Burns


Props


SOGS/SOPS


Books and Video


FEU


Training Minutes


Webcasts


FDIC Special Coverage


ISFSI


Firefighters Support Foundation





Features



Fire Dynamics


Survival Zone


Extrication Zone


Tech Zone





Fire EMS




Firefighting



Truck Company


Engine Company


Hazmat


Industrial


RIT


Structural


Wildland





Apparatus



Deliveries


Tools & Technology


Product Center





Health & Safety



Safety


LODDS





Leadership



Legal


Grants


Fireground Management


Officer Development


Volunteer Issues





Prevention



Building Construction


Codes & Standards


Public Education


Systems





Tech Rescue



Extrication


High Angle & Confined Spaces


Water & Ice Rescue


USAR


HAZMAT


Terrorism





Books




Community



Forums


Groups


Your Page


Members


Community Photos


Community Videos





 

 

 






 




Home
Hazmat
Wildland Firefighting
    
    
    TEXAS TASK FORCE 1 DEPLOYS TO BASTROP COUNTY



 









 






















                                    Print


                                    Email


                                    Save































TEXAS TASK FORCE 1 DEPLOYS TO BASTROP COUNTY








The following information was released by the office of the Governor of Texas:
Texas Task Force 1, the state's elite search team, was deployed to assist local officials and first responders in Bastrop County. With ongoing fires across Texas, the governor also urged all individuals who have been evacuated from their homes to register themselves and their families with the American Red Cross' Safe and Well program."These fierce fires near Bastrop have now become even more heartbreaking, as local officials today confirmed two deaths in the Bastrop area. To further support local efforts, I have requested that Texas Emergency Management Chief Nim Kidd deploy our state's elite wide area search team, Texas Task Force 1," Gov. Perry said. "I cannot emphasize enough to Texans in the impacted areas the importance of heeding all warnings from local officials, especially evacuation orders, as these fires are mean, swift and highly dangerous."
Gov. Perry was briefed on the potential loss of life early Tuesday afternoon, and immediately requested that Chief Kidd deploy a Texas Task Force 1 leadership team to Bastrop to establish a preliminary operation. This team was on site in Bastrop on Tuesday. Based on the needs of local officials, a wide area search team consisting of approximately 100 members and nearly one dozen search canines will be in Bastrop Wednesday morning to work with the local incident management team and assist with search operations.
Texas Task Force 1 is a 600-member force that is nationally recognized for its unique search, rescue and recovery capabilities. It was deployed to New York City following the terrorist attack on 9/11, and to New Orleans following the landfall of Hurricane Katrina.
Additionally, to help friends and family locate loved ones who have been evacuated due to these wildfires, impacted Texans can register themselves on the Red Cross' Safe and Well website at http://www.redcross.org/safeandwell by clicking on List Yourself as Safe and Well,' or by calling 1-800-RED CROSS (1-800-733-2767) from any phone. Individuals can also log on to register loved ones who may not have power or access to a computer, or search a list of registered names.
In the past seven days, the Texas Forest Service has responded to 181 fires that have burned more than 118,400 acres, including new fires in Bastrop, Travis, Henderson, Limestone, Caldwell, Colorado, Montgomery and Grimes counties, among others. TFS also continues to battle existing wildfires, including major fires in Palo Pinto, Briscoe, Coryell and Montague counties. Since the beginning of wildfire season, local and state firefighters have responded to more than 20,900 fires that have destroyed more than 1,000 homes and burned more than 3.6 million acres.
For more information on preparing for wildfire threats, please visit http://governor.state.tx.us/wildfires.Copyright 2011 States News ServiceWire News provided by  























 









































 


 





 

 




 


 























 








 



 

 

 










© Copyright 2011
Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions


TOPICS

Training
Feature Topics
Fire EMS
Firefighting
Apparatus
Health & Safety
Leadership
Prevention
Tech Rescue
Books/Video
Community


ABOUT US

Contact Us
Advertising
Subscribe
About Us


RESOURCES

Fire News
Online Archives
RSS Feeds
Buyer's Guide
Classifieds
Fire Engineering TV Video
Blog Network
Webcasts


SUPPORT

Register
Login
Forgot Password
Site Map


STAY CONNECTED

Twitter
Facebook










 

 


