Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home
















Subscribe now 


 
Customer Service
















The Adobe Flash Player is required to view this multimedia interactive.  Get it here.








Home

Site map


Local News

Local news homepage
Communities

Beavercreek
Bellbrook
Brookville
Centerville
Clayton
Dayton
Englewood
Fairborn
Huber Heights
Kettering
Lebanon
Miamisburg
Moraine
Oakwood
Springboro
Trotwood
Troy
Vandalia
Waynesville
West Carrollton
Xenia


Obituaries
Weather
Crime News
Ohio News
Nation & World
News Summary
Traffic & Maps
Archive - Past Articles
Election
Politics
Local Data
Ohio Lottery
Press Releases
Special Reports
News blogs

Ohio politics
Dayton courts
Dayton area crime
Greene County news




Sports

Sports Homepage
High Schools
Cincinnati Reds
UD Flyers
WSU Raiders
Cincinnati Bengals
Cleveland Browns
OSU Buckeyes
Miami RedHawks
Dayton Dragons
Dayton Gems
Local Auto Racing
Pro Auto Racing
Mixed-Martial Arts
Scores & Stats
Sports blogs

Hal McCoy - Reds
UD Flyers
High School Huddle
Tom Archdeacon
Wright State




Business

Business homepage
Stock Quotes
Business Leads
Local Directory
Business Events
Build Your Own Ad
B2B Magazine


Entertainment

Entertainment home
Movies
Things To Do
Restaurants
Music
Bars & Clubs
Theater & Arts
TV
Comics & Games
Kings Island
Recreation
Amusement Parks
Entertainment blogs

Mark Fisher - Restaurants
Mark Fisher - Wine
Celebrity Worship
Holidays
Lounge Lizards
Arts and Entertainment




Life

Life homepage
Pets
Health
Home & Garden
Recreation
Technology
Travel
NIE
Celebrations
Think Education
Lifestyle blogs

Seen and Overheard
Women's Life
Book Nook
Adventures in Motherhood
Bargains
Local Harvest




Opinion

Opinion homepage
Blogs
Mike Peters
Open Mike


Photos & Video

Photos
Videos
Photo & Page Reprints
You've Been Spotted


Help

Pay Newspaper Bill
Newspaper Vacation Stop
Start Newspaper Delivery
FAQ
Our Policies
Contact Us
Photo & Page Reprints
Archive - Past Articles
Legal Notices


Jobs

Cars

Homes

Classifieds & Deals

Local Directory








News feeds


E-mail alerts


Mobile


Text alerts


Twitter


Facebook






site

web





























Home
        
      
    
  
    
      
      
          
             > 
          
          News
        
      
    
  
    
      
      
          
             > 
          
          Nation & World


Texas wildfire evacuees anxious to return home



Hot Topics











  Volunteer fireman Ryan Mills douses hot spots with water on a wildfire near Bastrop, Texas, Friday, Sept. 9, 2011. Texas is suffering its worst wildfire outbreak in state history. The Bastrop-area fire has been the largest of nearly 190 wildfires the forest service says erupted this week, leaving nearly 1,700 homes statewide in charred ruins, killing four people and forcing thousands of people to evacuate.   (AP Photo/LM Otero)









  In this Sept. 8, 2011 file photo Deb Boyd looks through the remains of her friend's home that was destroyed by wildfires, in Bastrop, Texas. Scorching temperatures, strong winds and dry vegetation are turning Texas wildfires into fast and furious dangers that hop from place to place within hours, even minutes, and give residents little time to flee. Now it’s likely to get worse.  (AP Photo/Eric Gay, File)









  Tommy Ratto, a fire fighter from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., team cleans up a hot spot after the destructive wildfire in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011. Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home. (AP Photo/Eric Schlegel - POOL)









  A fire fighting crew from the Lassen National Forest in Calif., clean up hot spots in Bastrop, Texas, Sept. 10, 2011 after the destructive wildfire.  Officials in Texas say fire crews are making progress fighting a massive Texas wildfire but concerns about hotspots are keeping thousands of residents in the Bastrop area from returning home. (AP Photo/Eric Schlegel - POOL)






Latest local news



 One person killed in Trotwood shooting


3:03 a.m.




 Employers holding steady


2011-09-13 00:24:00.77




 Suspect in weekend killing has history of gun violence, cops say


2011-09-13 00:22:11.487




 2 guilty of duct-taping 3-year-old


2011-09-13 00:17:42.762




 Perry defends record against rivals


2011-09-12 23:55:05.673



> More headlines






More like this
Automatically generated based on the text of this story.















E-mail this page




Print this page


Larger type
Smaller type




  
  	 
			
		  			By  ANDREW DeMILLO,
				
		
  
  The Associated Press


  
  
    
        Updated 8:30 PM Saturday, September 10, 2011  
      
  

BASTROP, Texas  — After spending nearly a week wondering whether his home had been destroyed in massive wildfires sweeping across Central Texas, George Gaydos got the news Saturday: His house had burned down in the blaze.But Gaydos — who has been living at a hotel with his wife, two children and father since fleeing the fires nearly a week ago — still can't return to his neighborhood to see what is left of his home.Fire crews made progress Saturday fighting the wildfire but concerns over still smoldering hotspots have kept thousands of residents, including Gaydos, from returning home.Tensions flared during a news conference Saturday as some residents shouted questions at county officials, demanding to know when they could return to their homes — or what remains of them — in the Bastrop area, located about 30 miles east of Austin.Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said officials hope to get other residents back as soon as possible, but he didn't know how long that would take."This is day seven, tensions are high," McDonald said.Texas is in the midst of one of its worst wildfire outbreaks in state history. A perilous mix of hot temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought spawned the Bastrop-area fire, the largest of the nearly 190 wildfires the state forest service says erupted this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate.A 22,000-acre blaze straddling three rural counties about 40 miles northwest of Houston has burned for several days, destroying about 60 homes and forcing some people to evacuate. The forest service has said about half the fire was behind containment lines and no towns or cities were threatened. Most homes in the area are scattered in the forest, ranchland and in small subdivision clusters.In Bastrop, officials said Saturday the fire was about 50 percent contained after almost a week of burning. Though residents were anxious to get to their neighborhoods, Bastrop County Sheriff Terry Pickering said authorities need to be certain they are safe before residents would be allowed back. Residents from one 700-acre area that includes about two dozen homes were allowed to return home Saturday, but other areas remained evacuated as crews worked to put out potentially dangerous hotspots."Everybody hang in there and we'll get you back home as soon as possible," Pickering said.Fire crews continued battling hot spots on Saturday, but didn't expect major wind gusts through the night.But authorities also cautioned that the toll from the fires could get worse. McDonald said he expected the number of homes destroyed by the fire to increase from the current 1,400 tally as more assessments are completed. A spokesman for the team of state, local and federal agencies also said the number was expected to rise."We haven't even hit our toughest area," McDonald said Saturday afternoon, adding that teams haven't had a chance to go in and "count those houses or get a tally because of the amount of heat that's in the area."In the meantime, residents are staying wherever they can — makeshift shelters at churches, friends' and relatives' homes, even cars in nearby parking lots."There are some who are actually picking out apartments," said Sean McGahan, pastor of New Beginnings Church in Bastrop. "If you haven't already started, you're probably behind the curve."Next week, Gaydos and his family will move into a mobile home in Bastrop while they decide whether to rebuild. Before finding out Saturday on a fire department website that his home had been destroyed, Gaydos spent much of the past week so worried about his home that he couldn't sleep."You wake up in the middle of the night and you can't go back to sleep," Gaydos said. "I've been going to work early just because I'm already up."Gov. Rick Perry's office said families whose homes have been destroyed will receive seven-day hotel vouchers from a nonprofit organization as well as assistance from the state.The vouchers were welcome relief for Russell Horn, who said the $104 nightly hotel bill for him, his wife and two boys had become too costly. The 32-year-old electrician said their home had been destroyed by the fire and he had only been able to get out wearing an undershirt and shorts."There aren't too many places you can go just wearing that," Horn said.On Friday, White House officials announced that President Barack Obama had signed a federal disaster declaration for Texas. The move allows federal funding to be made available to individuals in Bastrop County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs.Perry unexpectedly canceled plans Saturday to visit areas hit by the Bastrop wildfire and hold a news conference because of "logistical issues" with him arriving on time, but he was in Austin and keeping in regular contact with officials on the wildfires, his spokeswoman said.___Andrew DeMillo can be reached at www.twitter.com/ademillo___September 11, 2011 12:16 AM EDT Copyright 2011, The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


Share this article







































User comments are not being accepted on this article.












Breaking news by e-mail

Start your day with top headlines in your inbox and get breaking news e-mail 
  alerts at any time by subscribing to our Headlines e-mail newsletter.

See Sample
|
Privacy Policy

SIGN UP









Most popular in Local News




Headlines





							  Galleries




Searched









Arrest made in weekend homicide


Children injured in minivan crash; mother may be charged


Brewery marks 20 years of beer


Beavercreek 9/11 Memorial dedicated


This is a kitty. This is a leopard. See the difference?


















Montgomery County Jail Inmates








Butler County Jail Inmates








Warren County Jail Inmates








Tri-County Regional Jail Inmates








Montgomery County Jail Inmates








Two hurt in motorcycle crash








Darke County Jail Inmates








Montgomery County Jail Inmates








Shelby County Jail Inmates








Widmer's 3 murder trials








Dance group performs for kids








You can ride WWII plane today









Sunday
Obituary
Sunday News Dayton
Tax
Technology Article














National news videos: Editor's picks







News photos & videos








9/11 Ceremony in Fairborn









9/11 memorial groundbreaking









Beavercreek 9/11 memorial









Beavercreek Popcorn Festival









Sheriff honored in tourney 









9/11 ten years ago









Habitat for Humanity









Woman hit by car









Remembering 9/11









Girl, 14, hit by car









More photos & video













Latest news blog posts


Another new restaurant opening in Trotwood


Dems, GOP spar over timing of vote on congressional redistriting


Man who shot friend receives prison sentence


Couple admit to torturing child with duct tape, plead guilty


Woman pleads guilty, admits to torturing daughter with duct tape


> More news blogs





From our news partners


Jury selection to begin in millionaire's murder trial


School moves bus stop from topless bar after parents complain


Calif. man killed over color of his belt


Home crash kills 1, reveals pot farm


Earhart goggles, photos pull in more than $31,000


Price of beauty: Premium human hair latest thieves' target


Shoppers caught off guard when deer dart into store


School administrator paid $188k for 1 day's work


Ohio couple wed on plane, then skydive from it


Police: Missing girl, 14, texts mother from unknown location














About our ads
About our ads













Home
      
        |
        
        News
      
        |
        
        Sports
      
        |
        
        Business
      
        |
        
        Entertainment
      
        |
        
        Opinion
      
        |
        
        Life
      
        |
        
        Recreation
      
        |
        
        Photos & Video
      
        |
        
        Cars
      
        |
        
        Homes
      
        |
        
        Find Dayton Jobs


Advertising Media Kit
      
        |
        
        Online Ad Studio
      
        |
        
        Advertiser Tools
      
        |
        
        Customer Service
      
        |
        
        Contact Us
      
        |
        
        Our Partners
      
        |
        
        RSS
      
        |
        
        Site Map



	  
	    
	   
    Copyright © Tue Sep 13 07:33:27 EDT 2011  
    
      Cox Ohio Publishing, Dayton, Ohio, USA. All rights reserved. 
    
  
 By using this site, you accept the terms of our 
      Visitors Agreement  and
      Privacy Policy. About our ads. You may wish to note our
      other business policies.
  


















 



