Obama phones Perry to discuss wildfires | KXAN.com







Newsletters
About Us
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 











News


Local
Williamson Co
Texas
National
Politics
Crime
Business
Investigations
Strange
Consumers
News Team
Weather


Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Currents
Hour by Hour
Local Webcams
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Weather Blogs
Traffic
Sports


Longhorns
High School
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
MLB
NFL
Auto Racing
Sports Blogs
Investigations
Health
Video
Community


Participate
Calendar
Dining
Living Green
Obituaries
XtheTXT
Entertainment


Photo
TV Schedule
NBC on Demand
The CW Austin
Blogs


Photo Video
Politics
Sports
Weather
onPolitix
Marketplace


Real Estate
Austin Experts
Austin Health


Home : News : Politics : 















Gov. Rick Perry walks to the helicopter to inspect the fire damage from the air, Sept. 6, 2011 (Josh Hinkle/KXAN)

Regular Photo Size




Photos: Texas is burning
Photos: Behind the lines after the fire











Latest News



State Rep. tours Bastrop neighborhoodsState Representative Tim Kleinschmidt's Office takes KXAN on …



Fire Chief reflects on Steiner fireChief Jim Linardos says he feels bleesed that they were able to…



Photos: Behind the lines after the fire
Here is one of the first looks inside the devastation in …



Leander neighbors return to their homesThere were mixed emotions for neighbors returning to their …




More Stories »





Advertisement







Obama phones Perry to discuss wildfiresPresident: feds 'quickly' assessing Texas damageUpdated: Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 7:31 PM CDTPublished : Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 6:53 PM CDT
Josh Hinkle 

AUSTIN (KXAN) - President Barack Obama’s office said Wednesday that requests for additional wildfire assistance in Texas “would be quickly assessed.” The White House said said he called Gov. Rick Perry to “express his concern for citizens of Texas impacted by the unprecedented fires.” This call came a day after Perry reiterated his request for a Major Disaster Declaration from the federal government for response and recovery, as Texas is still battling more than 50 wildfires. "Because so many fires are burning across the state, our resources are spread pretty thin,” Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said on Wednesday. “That's why we need the federal government to step up to the plate immediately.” Obama’s office said the federal government – through DHS/FEMA and the U.S. Forest Services – will “continue to make federal assistance available to state and local officials as they fight the fires.” In April, the Perry, who is a GOP candidate for the presidency, sent a letter to Obama requesting the declaration, which would have made the state eligible for Direct Federal Assistance and Emergency Protective Measures from the federal government. The Obama administration initially denied the request, and after an appeal Texas received partial approval. Perry’s office said a request to expand the scope of federal relief is still pending. "One of the problems that we've historically had when we're making requests for federal assets - and I'm talking about DOD in particular - is there's just a lot of bureaucracy there,” Perry said Tuesday after an aerial tour of some of the central Texas wildfire damage. "We need to cut through the red tape and get Texas the help we need today,” Dewhurst said. “There are federal resources – including aircraft, bulldozers and other heavy equipment – that can and should be made available right away." On Tuesday, FEMA authorized the use of federal funds to help Texas officials pay 75 percent of state and local government eligible firefighting costs, though Obama has not declared the situation in Texas a “Major Disaster” at this time. “Over the last several days, at the request of the Governor, the Administration has granted eight Fire Management Assistance Grants, making federal funds available to reimburse eligible costs associated with efforts to combat the fires,” the president’s office said. “FEMA is actively working with state and local officials to conduct damage assessments and to identify areas where additional federal assistance may be warranted.”  



     Report an inappropriate comment.   






















Latest News



State Rep. tours Bastrop neighborhoods


Fire Chief reflects on Steiner fire


Photos: Behind the lines after the fire



Obama phones Perry to discuss wildfires


Leander neighbors return to their homes





Fire crews descend from across country


Fort Hood soldier dies SCUBA diving


KXAN, Walmart, Salvation Army team up


Steiner Ranch fire 75 percent contained


Bastrop fire fatality victim identified








More Stories »






























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page














Advertisement

















Most Popular Stories



Arson suspected in Leander fire


Latest wildfire information


Bastrop home list confirms worst fears


Larger Bastrop fire now 30% contained


Bastrop County fire information






More Stories »






Advertisement









 Site Tools RSS Feeds Weather Alerts Text Alerts Newsletters Twitter Facebook Mobile / iPhone KXAN iPulse News Widget 









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Investigations
Health
Video
Community
Entertainment
Blogs
onPolitix
Marketplace


FCC 388 Digital File
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
EEO Public File Report
LIN InteractiveAll content © Copyright 2000 - 2011 LIN Television of Texas, LP. All Rights Reserved.












