Fire spectators draw concern, warning | KXAN.com







Newsletters
About Us
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 











News


Local
Williamson Co
Texas
National
Politics
Crime
Business
Investigations
Strange
Consumers
News Team
Weather


Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Currents
Hour by Hour
Local Webcams
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Weather Blogs
Traffic
Sports


Longhorns
High School
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
MLB
NFL
Auto Racing
Sports Blogs
Investigations
Health
Video
Community


Participate
Calendar
Dining
Living Green
Obituaries
XtheTXT
Entertainment


Photo
TV Schedule
NBC on Demand
The CW Austin
Blogs


Photo Video
Politics
Sports
Weather
onPolitix
Marketplace


Real Estate
Austin Experts
Austin Health


Home : Weather : 













Video
Photo














In one of the first images to come out of Spicewood, the destruction of a 6400 acre fire is seen.  All that is left of some home's are foundations and chimneys.



Trees burned in Spicewood (Jacqueline Ingles/KXAN)


PreviousPlayNextRegular Photo Size3/3





Map: Bastrop destroyed or damaged homes
List: Bastrop of destroyed structures
Photos: The victims: Sept. 11











Texas wildfires



State Rep. tours Bastrop neighborhoodsState Representative Tim Kleinschmidt's Office takes KXAN on …



Photos: Behind the lines after the fire
Here is one of the first looks inside the devastation in …



Obama phones Perry to discuss wildfiresPresident Barack Obama’s office said requests for additional …



Leander neighbors return to their homesThere were mixed emotions for neighbors returning to their …



Fire crews descend from across countryFire crews from all over the country are spread out across …








Advertisement







Fire spectators draw concern, warningMotorists stopping on Hwy. 71 to snap photosUpdated: Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 3:42 PM CDTPublished : Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 12:11 PM CDT
Jacqueline Ingles 

SPICEWOOD, Texas (KXAN) - Drive past parts of  fire-ravaged Spicewood  and one cannot miss the dozens of spectators pulled over on the side of the road snapping photos with their cameras and iPads, also taking video clips. The decision to pull over and snap pictures has fire crews warning spectators to be careful and lead by example. As of Tuesday night, the fire that has barreled through 6,400 acres, burned for more than three days and shut down part of Highway 71 is 90 percent contained. "This is still a very active fire," said Spicewood Fire department spokesperson Peter Teliha.   Travis County Precinct 3 Commissioner Karen Huber  backed up Teliha. "The fire marshal's office tells us that catalytic converters on the cars cause more fires than cigarettes thrown out of the cars and we don't need anymore risk," explained Huber.  "So, in addition to just the congestion people coming out to look at these fires causes, there is also a potential fire hazard." Huber, however, did see a motorist driving through Spicewood throw a lit cigarettte out of the car window. "If you see this happen, get the license plate number and call 911," Huber urged. Residents -- who were still displaced from their homes Wednesday morning before being allowed back in around noon -- stopped their cars and camped out in hopes of getting in to see their property.  Residents who live on Paleface Ranch Road and in Fall Creek Estates were misinformed when they heard they could return home Tuesday night at 8 p.m. if they got wristbands and vehicle stickers on their cars at the Bee Creek Methodist Church. "We are still assessing the fire which is now more than ,400 acres," said Mary Christopher, an emergency medical technician with the Pedernales Fire Department.  "Some of this terrain we cannot get to with a car so fire crews are on foot." Christoper wants rubberneckers and residents to remain patient and not to congest the highway. "Highway 71 is dangerous, we have workers on the roadside that could get hit by people stopping and staring," Christopher explained. So far, there have been no injuries or fatalities in this fire.  



     Report an inappropriate comment.   






















Latest News



State Rep. tours Bastrop neighborhoods


Fire Chief reflects on Steiner fire


Photos: Behind the lines after the fire



Obama phones Perry to discuss wildfires


Leander neighbors return to their homes





Fire crews descend from across country


Fort Hood soldier dies SCUBA diving


KXAN, Walmart, Salvation Army team up


Steiner Ranch fire 75 percent contained


Bastrop fire fatality victim identified








More Stories »






























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page














Advertisement

















Most Popular Stories



Arson suspected in Leander fire


Latest wildfire information


Bastrop home list confirms worst fears


Larger Bastrop fire now 30% contained


Bastrop County fire information






More Stories »






Advertisement









 Site Tools RSS Feeds Weather Alerts Text Alerts Newsletters Twitter Facebook Mobile / iPhone KXAN iPulse News Widget 









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Investigations
Health
Video
Community
Entertainment
Blogs
onPolitix
Marketplace


FCC 388 Digital File
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
EEO Public File Report
LIN InteractiveAll content © Copyright 2000 - 2011 LIN Television of Texas, LP. All Rights Reserved.












