Great misquotations: The famous things they never actually said - Manage Your Life on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Manage Your Life
Wednesday, September 7, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS



Related Topics: back to schoolsummertime funfall fashion




Great misquotations: The famous things they never actually said



editor


by Lylah M. Alphonse, Senior Editor, Manage Your Life, on Tue Sep 6, 2011 3:56pm PDT


624 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse









Prev Next
13 photos













photo 1 of 13

Prev
Next



He never really said that
In the days after Osama bin Laden's death, a quote attributed to Martin Luther King Jr. went viral, posted and tweeted by millions of people who were relieved that the terrorist had been eliminated but appalled by the idea of celebrating. The quote summed up their feelings well: "I mourn the loss of thousands of precious lives, but I will not rejoice in the death of one, not even an enemy." It's a great quote. The problem is, the Rev. King never actually said it. After a bit of sleuthing, Megan McArdle, a blogger at The Atlantic, discovered that the quote was from Jessica Dovey, a 24-year-old English teacher in Kobe, Japan. Dovey had posted the sentiment on Facebook, along with an actual quote from a speech that King gave at the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1957. Her entire Facebook status read: I
 will mourn the loss of thousands of precious lives, but I will not 
rejoice in the death of one, not even an enemy. "Returning hate for hate
 multiplies hate, adding deeper darkness to a night already devoid of 
stars. Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate 
cannot drive out hate, only love can do that." MLK Jr.
Somewhere along the line, though, the quote marks were removed, the entire statement was attributed to King, and then the paragraph was shortened, leaving Dovey's thought connected to King's name.Here are a dozen other famous quotations that you might recognize—along with what the actual quote really is.
Martin Mills/Getty Images







Follow Yahoo! Shine on Twitter , "like" us
on Facebook

Also on Shine:



5 great graduation speech quotes

The best, worst, and kookiest quotes of the year

The craziest quotes from in-laws

5 quotes to live by

Outrageous! Best celebrity parent quotes


Related: quotes, obama, misquote, martin luther king, mark twain, inspiration





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 624 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by Kristin  Tue Sep 6, 2011 5:19pm PDT

Love it! Excellent!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Kelly  Tue Sep 6, 2011 5:46pm PDT

I applaud your unbiasedness! If that's even a word? Haha!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by blueboyo  Tue Sep 6, 2011 5:57pm PDT

There are scores of other "mis"quotations floating around now as "truth."  That has always been so.  But it seems that the poisonous political atmosphere we have had since about 1980 has increased misunderstanding, intolerance, even viciousness exponentially !

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Kacie  Tue Sep 6, 2011 6:22pm PDT

How is "Let them eat cake"  not on here?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Kacie  Tue Sep 6, 2011 6:22pm PDT

How is "Let them eat cake"  not on here?

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Will B  Tue Sep 6, 2011 6:39pm PDT

The Gandhi quote wouldn't fit on a bumper sticker.  Good thing they changed it.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Norma Cluster  Tue Sep 6, 2011 8:33pm PDT

Sarah Palin should not be included amongst the other greats, she isn't worthy enough to even be the gum on their shoes.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Heather  Tue Sep 6, 2011 9:02pm PDT

Let them eat cake is not on here is a travesty.  Marie Antionette was one of the first peope to be crucified by the media for things she never did and it allowed the public to spread it like wildfire.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Jim 23 hours ago

Who actually cares if Sarah Palin is misquoted? She is a gaff looking for a place to be misspoken! :Power to Tina Fey!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Dave O 16 hours ago

They missed Diderot did not say "I would like to see the last king strangled with the entrails of the last priest."Admiral Yamamoto did not say (in reference to Pearl Harbor) "I fear we have awaken a sleeping giant and filled it with a terrible wrath."  That is from a movie (Tora Tora Tora-if I'm not mistaken)

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 624 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Manage Your Life Cheat_Sheet



Confessions of a slob10 things HR won't tell youWho is the most stressed?Sign up for our What's for Dinner? newsletter




Most Popular On Manage Your Life


The best out-of-office email ever written Thu Sep 1, 2011 3:30pm PDTGreat misquotations: The famous things they never actually said Tue Sep 6, 2011 3:56pm PDT9 Films That Were Better Than the Book Thu Sep 1, 2011 2:28pm PDTGrowing up after 9/11 Tue Sep 6, 2011 8:38am PDT4 Signs You Should Rent Instead of Buy a Home Thu Sep 1, 2011 8:44am PDT


More Most Popular on Manage Your Life »

Updates Chatter on Shine…





Acupressure Weight Loss Alternative Route of Managing Health
by weightloss-diettips.com a short while  ago





Weight Loss Tips Eat When You Are Really Hungry
by topweightlossreviews.com 1 minute ago





Overnight Weight Loss
by bestfastweightlossdiets.com 3 minutes ago





Do You Have a Cheating Boyfriend - Warning Signs to Look For
by Tnn 5 minutes ago





5 Secrets for Weight Loss
by quickweightlosstips.com 6 minutes ago





10 Things Men Want Women To Know About Sex
by K 6 minutes ago




See More Chatter »



Pick of the day


Shine's Miami Girlfriend Getaway contest!



Tell us about that friend you never get to see and why you two should win our trip to Miami. It could be an old BFF who lives far away, that awesome mom from carpool, or even your sister. The winners will fly to Miami and stay three nights at Eden Roc’s legendary beachfront oasis and relax in the Elle spa. Click to enter!




Read more »



more video from Shine




watch »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »










Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


The most-engaging guy on Facebook? Jesus

11 Myths that Destroy your Prosperity4 Kooky Memory Tricks That Work


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


4 Must-Haves From the New Missoni Collection at Target

7 Makeup Bag Must-Haves for Busy MomsHow to Wear White After Labor Day


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


200 Pounds lighter and "a 180-degree turn for the better!"

Are Energy Drinks Turning Guys Into Psychos?Meals that give you gorgeous skin


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Oldies but Goodies: 7 toys we loved (now in our kids’ rooms)

Poker Face: How to Gauge What Your Teen Is Really ThinkingDear Shine moms: Anderson Cooper wants to hear from you!


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Bad Economy? A Good Time for a Steamy Affair

Another radio station hosts mail-order bride contest. What happened to concert tickets?Should You Keep Your Maiden Name?


More in Love + Sex »



Food


Forget your kids: how do you bring your lunch to work?

Would you drink beer just because it's pink?7 Tips For Eating Less and Feeling Fuller


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!

5 Ways to Keep Breakfast SimpleParenting Guru: Heading back to school


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day














