5 Embarrassing Health Questions—Answered on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Wednesday, September 7, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS







5 Embarrassing Health Questions—Answered



partner


by Woman's Day, on Mon Aug 29, 2011 2:19pm PDT


53 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse








        
        
        by Dana
Sullivan
Bothersome bladder problems, alarming odors, hair growing in all
the wrong places. We all have issues that we’re too embarrassed to
bring up with anyone—including our doctors. But rest assured, your
doc has heard it all before. “It’s our job to help you, not judge
you,” says Laura Dean, MD, a spokeswoman for the American College
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists who practices in Stillwater,
Minnesota. Still, inquiring about a delicate health problem can be
uncomfortable. That’s why we decided to start the conversation for
you by asking experts to address six common blush-worthy
complaints.
Q: Sometimes I pee a little when I
laugh or run, but I don’t want to take medication. Should I even
bother mentioning this to my doctor?



A: Absolutely, says ob-gyn Lissa Rankin, MD,
author of What’s Up Down There? And in fact, medication doesn’t
work for stress incontinence, which is what you’re describing.
Stress incontinence—the most common form of incontinence in women,
as it often occurs post-pregnancy when the muscles and connective
tissue around the bladder and urethra weaken or stretch out—is
prompted by laughing, coughing, exercise or other physical
exertion. (Increased or sudden pressure on the bladder forces urine
out.)

One of the best fixes is Kegel exercises, which
involve squeezing your pelvic floor muscles to strengthen them.
Your doctor can explain how to do the exercises properly, or you
can go to MayoClinic.com/Health/Kegel-Exercises/WO00119 for
step-by-step instructions. Some women also benefit from “timed
voiding,” which means emptying your bladder on a regular schedule,
such as every hour. The less full your bladder is, the less likely
you are to leak.
Sometimes the problem is caused by prolapse (when your bladder has
fallen out of place a little, which your gynecologist can detect).
In that case, a device called a pessary can help. You can wear it
all the time or just put it in when you think you’ll need it—like
when you plan to go running—and it will push your bladder back into
its proper place. Photo: Shutterstock


Learn the truth about sex after pregnancy.
Q: I’m losing my hair. Could I be going
bald?



A: It’s normal to lose up to 100 hairs a day at
any age. But the sad truth is that women’s hair (like men’s) may
naturally get thinner with age. And some women do experience
female-pattern hair loss—the top and front of the head is most
affected. (It can start as early as your 30s, but it may worsen
around menopause.) Still, you should definitely raise this issue
with your doctor, especially if you’re starting to see bald spots
or your hair is coming out in clumps. “There are many reasons for
hair loss, including stress, thyroid conditions and infections,”
says Sonia Badreshia-Bansal, MD, a member of the American Academy
of Dermatology and a clinical instructor of dermatology at the
University of California, San Francisco. Numerous medications,
including antidepressants, birth control and blood pressure drugs,
can also cause hair loss. Hormonal changes (for example, if you’ve
recently given birth or stopped taking birth control pills) can
cause your hair to thin as well, but once your hormones stabilize,
your hair should return to normal in about six months.

Dieting can cause your hair to thin, especially if
you’re not getting enough protein, iron and B vitamins, as they are
essential for healthy hair. Dr. Badreshia-Bansal sometimes
recommends a biotin (B vitamin) supplement.
If your doctor determines that so-called “normal” female-pattern
hair loss is to blame, she’ll probably recommend over-the-counter
minoxidil (Rogaine), a topical solution that slows down hair loss
and stimulates new strands. She may also prescribe spironolactone
(Aldactone), an oral medication that blocks the hormone receptors
that cause hair loss. Photo: Ron Sumners / Thinkstock

Eat these foods for healthy hair and nails.
Q: I brush and floss twice a day but I
still have bad breath. Why? 


A: You may be forgetting a crucial factor: your
tongue. Since bad-breath-causing bacteria and plaque can build up
there, use a tongue scraper once or twice a day. And make sure to
get the back of your tongue in particular, since that’s where
plaque tends to accumulate, says dentist
Catrise Austin, DDS, author of 5 Steps to the Hollywood A-List
Smile. Chewing sugar-free gum (look for the ingredient xylitol,
which helps inhibit the growth of bacteria) can also help a little,
as can chewing on mint leaves or parsley or drinking cardamom,
anise or peppermint tea—they’re all natural breath sweeteners, says
Dr. Austin. And of course, you’ll want to steer clear of foods like
garlic and onions; their pungent oils can haunt your breath for up
to three days!
If none of that works, see your dentist. You may have gum
disease, a cavity or an abscess. But if your dentist doesn’t detect
an oral health problem—or if whatever treatment she
suggests doesn’t help within a few months—you may need to see a
gastroenterologist. About 10 percent of chronic bad breath problems
stem from digestive problems such as ulcers, acid reflux and
lactose intolerance. Another possible cause: a sinus infection, in
which the sinuses become inflamed and mucus may drip into the
throat. If that’s the case, an ear, nose and throat (ENT) doctor
can help you get the right treatment. Photo:
Thinkstock 

Find out what your dentist wants you to know.
Q: Why am I suddenly sprouting a
mustache and a beard?



A: Blame genetics and hormones. Some
women—especially those of Middle Eastern, South Asian and
Mediterranean descent—naturally have thick, coarse hair. But even
those who used to be relatively smooth-faced tend to get hairier
starting in perimenopause (usually in your 40s), thanks to hormonal
shifts, says Dr. Badreshia-Bansal. If you’re younger than 40 or
you’re also breaking out a lot, however, you could have a thyroid
problem or polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PCOS is a condition in
which the ovaries make excess amounts of androgens (male hormones
that women also make), and it may increase your risk of infertility
and diabetes. Your doctor should order blood tests to figure out if
you have PCOS or a thyroid disorder and treat you accordingly.

There are many ways you can remove facial hair. But if
you’re thinking about laser removal, know that it will only work
well if your hair is dark, because lasers target pigment, says Dr.
Badreshia-Bansal. Another option: Vaniqa. This prescription cream
can help thin out hair by targeting an enzyme that’s involved in
hair growth. Photo: Shutterstock

Discover
everything you need to know about waxing.
Q: I can’t wear black because my
dandruff is so bad, but “dandruff shampoo” doesn’t help. What
will?



A: Try alternating products with different
active ingredients, says Cynthia Bailey, MD, a California-based
dermatologist. Zinc pyrithione (Selsun Salon and Head &
Shoulders) has anti-yeast properties; ketoconazole (Nizoral) is an
antifungal and anti-yeast; coal tar (Neutrogena T/Gel) and selenium
sulfide (Selsun Blue Medicated and Head & Shoulders Clinical
Strength) slow the production of skin cells; and salicylic acid
(Neutrogena T/Sal) scrubs the scalp. Dr. Bailey recommends buying
two or three of these and switching every time you wash. She also
recommends sudsing up first with a regular shampoo to dissolve oil
and product buildup so the medicine will penetrate better. Then
apply the dandruff shampoo directly to your scalp and let it sit
for about 5 minutes. You should see noticeable improvement within
one month. If not, see a dermatologist, since you may need a
stronger prescription remedy (such as a steroid solution or
foam).

If you’re looking for a more natural fix, try coating your scalp
with warm mineral oil or peanut oil, then use a fine-tooth comb to
loosen flakes before shampooing, says Dr. Bailey. Tea tree oil
shampoos (sold in health food stores) can also be effective.
Whatever you do, make sure you shampoo as often as possible
(ideally every day). “People with dandruff tend to wash their hair
less frequently because they assume the condition is caused by
dryness, but it’s not,” says Bruce Robinson, MD, clinical
instructor of dermatology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York
City. An overgrowth of yeast may be to blame, but experts say that
people who have it generally have an oily scalp, which can allow
dead skin cells to accumulate and flake off. Photo: Sanne Berg
/ Thinkstock
Dana Sullivan writes about health and fitness from her home in
Reno, Nevada. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, O:
The Oprah Magazine and Real Simple.

Article originally appeared on 
WomansDay.com.

You Might Also Like:


10 Foods That Can Help You Sleep


8 Sex Questions You’re Too Embarrassed to Ask


9 Habits That Can Do More Harm Than Good


10 Exercises for Better Sex


18 Foods for a Healthier Life

Related: women's health, sexual health, hair





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 53 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by Sarah P  Tue Aug 30, 2011 1:11pm PDT

The only problem with dandruff shampoos/conditioners is that it can dry out your hair if used everyday. You're NOT supposed to use them everyday. That includes the ones that "claim" to moisturize your hair. They need to come up with actual dandruff shampoos/conditioners that won't damage hair. Too bad the Wen kit is not sold in stores. I would try it to see if it really works like they claim in the infomercials.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Kyla B  Tue Aug 30, 2011 2:04pm PDT

There is a product called "Hair One" thats very close to Wen. They have a tea-tree oil formula meant for scalp problems. It's sold at Sally's beauty supply stores (and on their website if you don't have a Sally's near you). Its also about 1/3 of the cost of Wen. Works great, but it takes quite a bit of work in the shower to use it correctly! Expect to spend at least 10 minutes really scrubbing the product into your scalp, plus waiting time.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by K  Tue Aug 30, 2011 2:12pm PDT

I just learned of Wen last weekend from an infomercial. I nearly called to order it but they required you to have an automatic supply shipped to you every month or whatever. I'd just like to try it once to see. Looks amazing!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Amanda  Tue Aug 30, 2011 2:16pm PDT

Sara P..My aunt was brave and went out on a limb to purchase Wen. I didn't know at the time and had never seen the infomercial.  I noticed her hair looked more full, body, shiny and over all more healthy..and this happened over night. I asked did she go get her hair done or something because it looked amazing.  She said no but showed me the Wen product she had bought and believe me it does work great def worth every penny..it will fix any problem you are having with your hair and even if you dont have any problems it will just make the hair more healty..the key is to use it specifically as directed..

Report Abuse

 


Posted by ShaunaS  Tue Aug 30, 2011 2:28pm PDT

Sarah P...I use Wen and I love it. Best product that I've ever used for my hair. I have fine and dry hair and it leaves it shiny and bouncy. Definitely worth trying it out.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by AYahooUserHere  Tue Aug 30, 2011 6:57pm PDT

I have long, thick, curly hair and I used Wen for a year and a half. In the beginning I was a walking infomercial for them, telling anyone who would listen that it's the best stuff on Earth. About nine months into using it, my hair started to get frizzy, dull, weak and looked worse than before I started using Wen. I finally found out that the product is filled with silicones and the harsh sulfates that Chaz Dean prides himself on not using are the only things that completely wash silicones out of hair. So after using Wen for an extended period of time, you end up with a buildup of silicones and the moisturizers can't penetrate the hair.That said, Wen still works if you use a separate clarifying shampoo once a month or so. But for the price, it's hardly worth it. I've found lots of other products that are both sulfate AND silicone free that are a lot cheaper than Wen. I suggest going to naturallycurly.com (even if you don't have curly hair) to find reviews on the best products (personally, I LOVE Jessicurl).Also, K - if you want to try Wen without signing up for the Guthy Renker automatic delivery, you can go to www.chazdean.com instead of going to the "official" Wen website :)

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Lulu Beshir  Tue Aug 30, 2011 7:29pm PDT

I have gone through 3 bottles of Wen it made my hair very smooth and shiny...I used use Tressemme...BIG DIFFERENCE

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Lulu Beshir  Tue Aug 30, 2011 7:29pm PDT

I have gone through 3 bottles of Wen it made my hair very smooth and shiny...I used use Tressemme...BIG DIFFERENCE

Report Abuse

 


Posted by ANL  Tue Aug 30, 2011 8:01pm PDT

why are these embarassing questions? only to ppl who are prude or narrow minded.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Annie  Tue Aug 30, 2011 8:13pm PDT

Vaniqa does not "remove" facial hair.  Yes, it slows down the growth and its less noticable, but stop using it and hair growth returns.  Unfortunately.  :-{

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 53 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















Vitality poll




Have you had to dip into your retirement savings to meet other financial obligations?





Yes
 

No
 

I might have to soon








See Results »










Have you had to dip into your retirement savings to meet other financial obligations?





Yes

 
56%


 

No

 
33%


 

I might have to soon

 
11%







« Vote on this question



sponsored by:




vitality pick of the day


3 myths about aging bodies



New and inspiring research shows that the supposed physical "certainties" of aging are mostly avoidable. Muscles don't necessarily shrivel. You don't have to shrink or slow down. The key to aging well? One word: Move.
 Posted by Oprah.com




Read more »



More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »











Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


The most-engaging guy on Facebook? Jesus

11 Myths that Destroy your Prosperity4 Kooky Memory Tricks That Work


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


4 Must-Haves From the New Missoni Collection at Target

7 Makeup Bag Must-Haves for Busy MomsHow to Wear White After Labor Day


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


200 Pounds lighter and "a 180-degree turn for the better!"

Are Energy Drinks Turning Guys Into Psychos?Meals that give you gorgeous skin


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Oldies but Goodies: 7 toys we loved (now in our kids’ rooms)

Poker Face: How to Gauge What Your Teen Is Really ThinkingDear Shine moms: Anderson Cooper wants to hear from you!


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Bad Economy? A Good Time for a Steamy Affair

Another radio station hosts mail-order bride contest. What happened to concert tickets?Should You Keep Your Maiden Name?


More in Love + Sex »



Food


Forget your kids: how do you bring your lunch to work?

Would you drink beer just because it's pink?7 Tips For Eating Less and Feeling Fuller


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!

5 Ways to Keep Breakfast SimpleParenting Guru: Heading back to school


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day
















 

