U.S. Slides, Singapore Rises in Competitiveness Survey - Yahoo! Finance

Skip navigation




 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Finance              Search   Search Web       







What are streaming quotes?




 
			{ "market" : {"NAME" : "", "ID" : "us", "TZ" : "", "TZOFFSET" : "-14400", "open" : "", "close" : "", "flags" : ""} ,"STREAMER_SERVER" : "http://streamerapi.finance.yahoo.com" ,"arrowAsChangeSign" : false ,"throttleInterval": "1000","localize":"0" ,"region": "US","lang" : "en-US","mu":"1" ,"up_arrow_icon" :"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/up_g.gif" , "down_arrow_icon":"http://l.yimg.com/a/i/us/fi/03rd/down_r.gif" ,"up_color" :"green" , "down_color":"red","pass_market_id" : "0","market_status_yrb" :"YFT_MARKET_WILL_OPEN"}
		



Home
Investing
Market Overview
Market Stats
Stocks
Mutual Funds
ETFs
Bonds
Options
Industries
Currencies
Education
Commodities


News

Markets
Investing Ideas
Expert Advice
Special Editions
Company Finances
Providers
Video


Personal Finance
Banking & Budgeting
Career & Work
College & Education
Family & Home
Insurance
Loans
Real Estate
Retirement
Taxes
Lifelong Investing



My Portfolios
Sign in to access My Portfolios
Free trial of Real-Time Quotes



new!EXCLUSIVES
Breakout
The Daily Ticker
Daniel Gross
Financially Fit







Search for share prices
Search for share prices


Finance SearchThu, Sep 8, 2011, 12:06AM EDT - U.S. Markets open in 9 hrs 24 mins











U.S. Slides, Singapore Rises in Competitiveness Survey













MATTHEW SALTMARSH, 	On Wednesday September 7, 2011, 5:13 am EDT

LONDON — The United States is slipping and emerging markets are improving, but European economies still dominate the list of the most competitive economies in the world, according to a World Economic Forum report released Wednesday.For the third consecutive year, Switzerland ranked first in the forum’s annual competitiveness survey , which assesses countries based on 12 categories including innovation, infrastructure and the macro-economic environment.The United States — which topped the list in 2008 — continued its decline, also for the third year in a row, falling one place to fifth position. The weaker performance was attributed to economic vulnerabilities as well as “some aspects of the United States’ institutional environment,” notably low public trust in politicians and concerns about government inefficiency.Singapore overtook Sweden to claim the second position. But perhaps surprisingly, given the crisis of confidence that continues to plague the European financial system, Western European countries dominated survey’s top 10 economies.Behind Sweden, Finland ranked fourth, Germany was sixth, followed by the Netherlands and Denmark. Britain was in tenth; France was 18th and indebted Greece slid to 90th.The results show that while competitiveness in advanced economies has stagnated over recent years, it has improved in many emerging markets, helping their economies to become more robust and mirroring the shift in economic activity from the West to developing economies, the Geneva-based forum said.“Much of the developing world is still seeing relatively strong growth, despite some risk of overheating, while most advanced economies continue to experience sluggish recovery, persistent unemployment and financial vulnerability, with no clear horizon for improvement,” Klaus Schwab, founder and chairman of the forum, said in a statement.China, ranked 26th and up one place on a year earlier, was the highest placed of the large developing economies. Among the other major emerging economies, South Africa was 50th, Brazil 53rd, India 56th and Russia 66th.Among major Asian economies, Japan ranked ninth and Hong Kong 11th.Qatar was the highest ranked country in the Middle East, at 14th, followed by Saudi Arabia at 17th. The United Arab Emirates stood at 27th.The rankings are calculated from both publicly available data and a survey of over 14,000 executives in 142 economies. Together they form an index, which was introduced in 2004.The index takes account of 12 categories: institutions; infrastructure; economic environment; health and primary education; higher education and training; goods market efficiency; labor market efficiency; financial market development; technological readiness; market size; business sophistication; and innovation.“For the recovery to be put on a more stable footing, emerging and developing economies must ensure that growth is based on productivity enhancements,” said Xavier Sala-i-Martin, a professor of economics, at Columbia University and co-author of the report. “Advanced economies, many of which struggle with fiscal challenges and anaemic growth, need to focus on competitiveness-enhancing measures in order to create a virtuous cycle of growth and ensure solid economic recovery.”

Follow Yahoo! Finance on Twitter; become a fan on Facebook.







 

Top Stories




Obama's best jobs plan might be status quo - AP


Perplexing puzzle: Can Yahoo's luster be restored? - AP


Asian stocks mixed ahead of Obama jobs speech - AP


Shocker: Power demand from US homes is falling - AP








 

1,318 comments



Show:

Newest FirstOldest FirstHighest RatedMost Replied




Sort






                         Post a comment


Comments 1 - 10 of 1318First PrevNextLast
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Wow 32 seconds ago Report Abuse it will get much worse for USA...it will become a third world country in a decade or so.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment James 39 seconds ago Report Abuse Some of you white honkies just don't get it.   When are you white honkies going to resort to logic and reason? The reason why america is losing competitiveness is because white honkies do not want change. They want Obama to wave a magic wand and fix everything   but white honkies don't really want change.   Seriously do you think Obama can change anything when the white honkies ran america down? He certainly could change things if white honkies would realize that change is change.   You don't keep doing the samething and expect a change.   This is why the white honkie temple system of Christ the King of the jews goverment does not work.   What needs to happen is the white honkie made us constitution needs trashed and a new one written where equality works. There are too many loop holes in the current constitution where white honkies get away with lying stealing and cheating. I'm so glad I'm not a white honkie.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment noneya  1 minute ago Report Abuse Global Socialism requires that Obama wreck our economy to increase the rest of the worlds economic chances.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment TJB  1 minute ago Report Abuse Wow.

We're getting our asses kicked by Socialist Democracies with strong trade unions, higher tax rates and incredible social safety nets.   Huh.

Kinda blows the idiotic Teabagging nonsense out of the water.

Facts.   Gotta love em.

duh.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Jessica  1 minute ago Report Abuse Switzerland also have one of the most respected graphic designs.
They also look forward and they advance; America doesn't. We're still "angry" about 9/11.  
I'm not saying to forget 9/11, but it's time to move on and rebuild our country.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Injustice 4 minutes ago Report Abuse “The only phenomenon with which writing has always been concomitant is the creation of cities and empires, that is the integration of large numbers of individuals into a political system, and their grading into castes or classes. It seems to have favored the exploitation of human beings rather than their enlightenment.” -   Claude Levi-Strauss
 



2 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
1 users disliked this comment Sandy 4 minutes ago Report Abuse Yes, we were in a bind in 2008, but could have been brought out of it if Obama hadn't taken the country by storm...........just because he was a black man, that is why most voted for him....he was not and is not ready for this. Young black people did not even take a chance at looking at what politician had what to give, they voted for Obama because he is BLACK. I hope you are happy with your , wrong, choice.   :)
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment Tom 4 minutes ago Report Abuse The well funded "environmental groups" that are being funded by subversive organizations and foreign adversaries are taking U.S. companies and our country to our knees without firing a shot.   Our companies must comply with outrageous rules and guidlines while foreign companies do whatever the hell they want.   WAKE UP AMERICA!!!!!!!!   The "greenies" are killing us.
 



0 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
0 users disliked this comment UVOTED4IT 6 minutes ago Report Abuse IT'S BEEN IN THE WORKS FOR YEARS PEOPLE !
   LOOK DEEPER THAN THE MEDIA & YOU WILL SEE WHAT REAL   GOAL IS OF
   THE UNDERGROUND POWER BROKERS & THE ELITE THAT YOU WILL NEVER SEE OR  
    HEAR ABOUT......!
 



5 users liked this comment
Please sign in to rate this comment up.
Please sign in to rate this comment down.
6 users disliked this comment Nobama 8 minutes ago Report Abuse Give Obama another term and we will be behind Zimbabwe !

Comments 1 - 10 of 1318First PrevNextLast 
Post a comment
 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
                








More From Provider



News Analysis: In Euro Zone, Banking Fear Feeds on Itself NYTimes.com Court Rejects Challenges to German Euro Bailouts NYTimes.com Global Stocks Rebound NYTimes.com








The Daily Ticker Recent Posts



Memo to Washington: Gridlock Is NOT Good for Small Businesses  - Aaron Task Politically, It’s D.O.A. But Is Obama’s Jobs Plan a Good One?  - Peter Gorenstein August Economic Data Defies Double-Dip Consensus  - Daniel Gross



View More 



Subscribe to Topics



Top Stories 
					


 



 



 Add Alert 		






See all RSS links 











Yahoo! Finance

Banking & Budgeting
Calculators
Currency
ETFs
Experts
Investing


Insurance
Market Stats
Message Boards
Mobile
Personal Finance
What's New



Also on Yahoo!

Autos
Finance
Flickr
Games
Groups
Health


Mail
Maps
Movies
Music
My Yahoo!
News


Shopping
Sports
Travel
TV
Video
» All Y! Services




Things To Do

Read Our Blog
Finance on Your Phone
Check Home Values
Find a New Car
Search Jobs Across the Web




Yahoo! Finance Worldwide

Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
China
Chinese
France
French Canada
Germany


Hong Kong
India
Italy
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Singapore
Spain
Spanish
Taiwan
UK & Ireland
USA






Quotes delayed, except where indicated otherwise. Delay times are 15 mins for NASDAQ, NYSE and Amex. See also delay times for other exchanges. Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page.Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein.
Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ. Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI). International historical chart data, daily updates, fundAnalyst estimates data provided by Thomson Financial Network. All data povided by Thomson Financial Network is based solely upon research information provided by third party analysts. Yahoo! has not reviewed, and in no way endorses the validity of such data. Yahoo! and ThomsonFN shall not be liable for any actions taken in reliance thereon.



2142411077











