College Without Debt: What's the Secret? on Shine





HomeManage Your LifeFashion + BeautyHealthy LivingParentingLove + SexFoodYour WisdomAstrologyVideo




Featured on Shine: the thread: celeb fashion videofinancially fitmoments of motherhoodvitalitypower your future




All
Recipes
Search Yahoo! Shine for:

Shine Search







Wednesday, September 7, 2011
Subscribe to This BlogAdd to My Yahoo!RSS







College Without Debt: What's the Secret?



partner


by CBS MoneyWatch.com, on Mon Aug 29, 2011 1:43pm PDT


139 Comments
Post a Comment
Read More from This Author »
Report Abuse








 

Thinkstock

By Lynn
O'Shaughnessy for CBS MoneyWatch.com
The majority of students who graduate from college leave with a
diploma and student loans. Two out of every five undergrads,
however, earn a degree without borrowing for college. In the most
recent reporting year available, that equals about 1.7 million
undergrads.

Who are these lucky students? Mark Kantrowitz, the founder of
FinAid, a
comprehensive financial aid website, decided to find out what kind
of students managed to graduate debt free.




 






-- 20 Best-Paying College Degrees



-- Most Expensive U.S. Colleges



-- Biggest College Savings Mistakes



-- 20 Craziest Job Interview Questions



-- Easiest & Toughest College Majors


 





Here is what Kantrowitz discovered:

1. Eighty-five percent of students who graduated with no debt
attended public colleges and universities, and 78% enrolled in
in-state institutions.

2. Selecting an inexpensive school was the best way to dodge
student debt. Eighty eight percent of students, who graduated debt
free, attended schools where the tuition was less than $10,000.

3. Only 30% of students graduating from private, nonprofit colleges
left without loans.

4. Fifty-one percent of graduates of public institutions weren’t
burdened with debt.

5. The best way to accumulate debt was to attend a for-profit
school. Only 7% of students who enrolled in for-profit colleges
graduated with zero student loans.

6. About 75% of students with no debt spent $1,000 a year or less
on 
textbooks.

7. Fifty-six percent of affluent students left college without
debt.

8. More than two thirds of students, who avoided loans, received
financial help from their parents.

9. Students whose parents earned advanced degrees were more likely
to graduate without debt.

10. Forty-five percent of middle-income students incurred no
student loans.

11. Thirty-six percent of poor students graduated with loans.

12. Half of students, who graduated with no debt, earned a degree
at a community college.

Bottom line: While it might seem from media
reports that nearly all students are reeling from college debt, a
significant minority aren’t. Just as importantly, three fifths of
students graduate with less than $10,000 of college loans, which
should be a manageable amount for many young Americans.
©2011 CBS Interactive Inc., a CBS Company. All rights
reserved. Used by permission.
More on MoneyWatch:


20 Best-Paying College Degrees

Most Expensive U.S. Colleges

Biggest College Savings Mistakes

20 Craziest Job Interview Questions

Easiest & Toughest College Majors


Related: textbooks, o'shaughnessy, moneywatch, lynn, loans, debt, community college, college, cbs





From the Community… 
Comments 1-10 of 138 
First« PrevNext »Last
 


Posted by pkprq97  Wed Aug 31, 2011 10:48am PDT

count me among the 36% from poor students who borrowed .. given these factors i shouldn't have - both parents have advanced degrees BUT they are in industries that do not monetarily reward folks for doing the job - teaching and ministry REQUIRE 4 year degrees PLUS graduate school and are paid peanuts. not enough to send ONE kid to a public institution w/out incurring debt (and that's w/ taking all GE classes at a local JC on the kid's dime not parents' and transferring) let alone FOUR.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by nana  Wed Aug 31, 2011 11:16am PDT

I can proudly say that I am among those who did not incurred loan debt thanks to my parents.  Being of a low-middle income family, my parents worked their a*s off with two jobs each to get their daughters through school. I went to a community college to get my GE and transferred to a Cal-State close to home. No financial aid, since apparently my parents made too much $$ with their combined income (Yeah right!). So, I owe all this to my lovely parents. Now it's my turn to pay back their investment in me (happily to so :).

Report Abuse

 


Posted by J  Wed Aug 31, 2011 11:57am PDT

My family has a long standing tradition; we open college savings accounts for our children as soon as they are born, and we continually put money aside so that when they’re ready to go to school the money is available. This tradition has been going on for 100+ years. Everyone has gone to college or trade school of their choosing- fully paid for, then have the remaining money to start their own lives with. Of course my family also only has one or two children each because we like to still be able to support our lives while saving money for our children. We’re also a working family- not rich by any means, but EVERONE pulls their own weight.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Nicole  Wed Aug 31, 2011 12:00pm PDT

I graduated without any student debt. I worked about 40hrs a week and attended full time. It was hard dont get me wrong. My parents did not give me one cent to help pay for college nor a car to get there. i did live under their roof while in school but i paid for everything else. My husband was the same way but he has 2 college degrees and no debt, his parents did the same thing as mine no financial help but free room at home to live in. i will NOT pay for my children's education-it was invaluable for me to learn hard work, time management, and financial resonsibility!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by cp  Wed Aug 31, 2011 12:19pm PDT

Work part time, don't borrow for books but pay for them with your part time job. Don't borrow for housing, either live at home or share an inexpensive apartment with others and pay your share of rent from your job. This will make for a manageable education. Plus you will learn to manage your finances which will make life much easier once you actually get working in your field. Going in debt for ALl living expenses is what actually makes these student loans so outrageous!

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Maranda  Wed Aug 31, 2011 12:38pm PDT

College without debt = working and not spending money on pointless things.. that's how it's done..

Report Abuse

 


Posted by N Y  Wed Aug 31, 2011 12:44pm PDT

I am also from an poor family who had to borrow to go to college. Luckily I only came out of college with $2000 in student loans because I applied for various scholarships. I paid my student loans off within a year of graduating.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Anony.  Wed Aug 31, 2011 1:38pm PDT

Stripping, obviously. ;D

Report Abuse

 


Posted by nicky  Wed Aug 31, 2011 2:05pm PDT

My situation is almost the same as Nana.I am in my second year of college, i got to a cal state.I got two loans but am in the process of paying it back. but my parents still payed like $1000 as part of the family contribution.

Report Abuse

 


Posted by Cristina  Wed Aug 31, 2011 2:47pm PDT

I graduated without debt.  I paid my own way through school.  I didn't qualify for aid, despite being without assistance from either parent (one couldn't afford to help, the other didn't care), but I looked like I had money on paper.  So, no choice but to hustle.  I worked full-time while taking a full coarse load and went to a state school.  It wasn't easy, but I did it.

Report Abuse

 
Comments 1-10 of 138 
First« PrevNext »Last
 

leave your comment

You must sign in to post a comment







Sign In for personalized information New User? Sign Up




Mail
Weather
Horoscopes

Let’s talk:
				
				Manage
My Stuff
Write a Post















 Cheat Sheet



How to boost cash reservesFree websites to track your financesDon't fall for grocery store tricksBrought to you by: Bank of AmericaGet your finances on track with Bank of America







Financially Fit poll




September is a great time for booking travel deals. Are you planning on taking advantage of the low prices?





Yes
 

No
 

Not sure








See Results »










September is a great time for booking travel deals. Are you planning on taking advantage of the low prices?





Yes

 
29%


 

No

 
58%


 

Not sure

 
13%







« Vote on this question



sponsored by:




pick of the day


College without debt?It's possible.



The majority of students who graduate from college leave with a diploma and student loans. Two out of every five undergrads, however, earn a degree without borrowing for college. Here's how.




Watch video »



financially fit fyi:

Bank of America has the financial tips and tools to help you take control of your finances


Get the tips and tools »





More on Yahoo!





Help Yahoo! fund classroom projects
Find a project now »





Get movie times and tickets
Yahoo! Movies »





Back-to-school iPhone apps
See more apps »





Top ice cream treats
For more recipes »











Right Now on Shine




Manage Your Life


The most-engaging guy on Facebook? Jesus

11 Myths that Destroy your Prosperity4 Kooky Memory Tricks That Work


More in Manage Your Life »



Fashion + Beauty


4 Must-Haves From the New Missoni Collection at Target

7 Makeup Bag Must-Haves for Busy MomsHow to Wear White After Labor Day


More in Fashion + Beauty »



Healthy Living


200 Pounds lighter and "a 180-degree turn for the better!"

Are Energy Drinks Turning Guys Into Psychos?Meals that give you gorgeous skin


More in Healthy Living »





Parenting


Oldies but Goodies: 7 toys we loved (now in our kids’ rooms)

Poker Face: How to Gauge What Your Teen Is Really ThinkingDear Shine moms: Anderson Cooper wants to hear from you!


More in Parenting »



Love + Sex


Bad Economy? A Good Time for a Steamy Affair

Another radio station hosts mail-order bride contest. What happened to concert tickets?Should You Keep Your Maiden Name?


More in Love + Sex »



Food


Forget your kids: how do you bring your lunch to work?

Would you drink beer just because it's pink?7 Tips For Eating Less and Feeling Fuller


More in Food »





The Thread


7 Reasons We Love Mila Kunis

Fashion We Can't Get Away With, But Celebs CanWe talk singing and style with Zooey Deschanel


More in The Thread »



Moments of Motherhood


Parenting Guru: Ode to Summer Travel...being over!

5 Ways to Keep Breakfast SimpleParenting Guru: Heading back to school


More in Moments of Motherhood »



Favorite Sites



AllureBon AppétitCosmopolitanEating WellForbesGlamour


Health.comPreventionReal BeautySelf MagazineThe StirTotal BeautyWoman's Day
















 

