
	Texas Forest Service











LOCAL CAPACITY BUILDING - HOME









[ Print | 

 ]



The Texas Forest Service Emergency Services Grants Unit based in College Station has a new telephone number:979-458-5540Please contact us at this number regarding the Rural Volunteer Fire Department Assistance Program (HB 2604), or the Rural Volunteer Fire Department Insurance Program (HB 3667).Local fire departments are the primary initial response resources for wildfire suppression in Texas. TFS is committed to train, equip and assist them in support of the Texas Wildfire Protection Plan. Eligible fire departments can apply for many assistance programs, from the Rural Volunteer Fire Department Assistance Program (HB 2604) to Fire Quench. 



                                    
 
                                                                There is no central register for fire departments in Texas, which makes determining the overall response capacity difficult. In 2007, the 80th Texas Legislature tasked TFS to develop a list of fire departments and firefighter resources within the state. TFS responded with the Fire Department Directrory (FDD). FDD is a web-based system that captures essential fire department information. The system is available to fire departments, agencies and associations. Fire departments are encouraged to participate directly and can request access online or by email to fdd@tfs.tamu.edu.Departmental StrategiesAssist local fire departments which are the primary initial attack resource for rural TexasTrain, equip and support local fire departments and other cooperatorsFocus on TFS fire assistance programs for cooperators in support of the Texas Wildfire Protection PlanEncourage partnership between all federal, state and local cooperatorsQuicklinksAdvisory councilsAttack from the Black Training Video Fire Department DirectoryRoscommon Equipment Center Sample Cooperative Agreement for Rural Community Fire ProtectionTFS assistance programsUSFA/FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) 2011 AFG Grant Application Period Is Now Open! - NEW! 








