With lost iPhone, Apple beefs up security  - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







GOP debate
•
Texas wildfires
•
'Ground Zero' name
•
NBA lockout
•
Lobster pants
•
Ullman: American Dream








			You are here: 
			Home
			 / Business News			/ With lost iPhone, Apple beefs up security  


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

Business News



With lost iPhone, Apple beefs up security 

        		Published: Sept. 6, 2011 at 12:28 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Slideshow


1 of 5
 



				File photo. UPI/John Angelillo  






Related Stories

Apple loses another iPhone
Sprint memo cryptic on iPhone 5
Sprint poised for iPhone deal
Next iPhone to launch in October
Gizmodo cleared, 2 charged in iPhone sale



Advertisement

CUPERTINO, Calif., Sept. 6 (UPI) -- California technology giant Apple is searching for two product security personnel after a prototype iPhone came up missing.
San Francisco police admitted they had allowed four plainclothes policemen to accompany two Apple employees to the home of city resident Sergio Calderon to track down a prototype of the fifth generation iPhone,  PC Magazine reported Tuesday.
In a statement, the San Francisco Police Department said officers did not go in the home, but the Apple employees did. Later, Calderon complained he would not have allowed his home to be searched by company employees who were not members of the police department.
The prototype phone was reportedly lost in a bar in San Francisco, which is strikingly similar to an incident that involved a prototype of the fourth generation iPhone.
In the previous incident, the phone was found in a bar and later sold to a technology magazine. Two people involved in that incident have been charged with misappropriation of lost property. 
Apple Insider reported Tuesday that the company has apparently responded by posting job ads for two product security managers, who will be responsible for "accurately assessing physical and logical security implementations."
The ads list as requirements an advanced degree in risk management or security management and more than five years of experience in security assessment. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints


Next Story: Service business activity grew in August
or see all Business News stories



Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional Business News Stories



Energy Resources


Brazil revives anti-dumping row with China
BRASILIA, Brazil, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- 
			Brazil has revived its long-running anti-dumping feud with China as more Latin American nations warm up to the idea of an overarching trade pact that will grant Chinese exports special privileges in Mercosur regional trade bloc.
		
Japan to decrease nuclear power?
Italy's ENI leads race for Libya oil deals
Cranes latest potential victim of Keystone
U.S. sinks millions into hydropower


Security Industry


No nuclear weapons, pledge Latin powers
BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 7 (UPI) -- 
			Two of Latin America's leading emergent nuclear powers, Argentina and Brazil, said they would campaign to keep the South Atlantic region free of atomic weapons even as they push multibillion dollar nuclear development programs.
		
South Korea purchases Israeli rockets
U.S. Navy contracts for data analytics
U.S. Navy orders threat warning systems 
SAIC assists U.S. Missile Defense Agency




Real Estate


Seasonal Buying Drives June Prices

			June home prices rose for the third consecutive month, ending the month with the largest seasonal gain year to date....
		
Fannie Mae's Defaults Sink to 2 Year Low
Independents' Profits on Purchase Mortgages Soar 66 Percent
Foreclosures Now Take 20 Months
Case-Shiller Prices Recover in Second Quarter


Analysis: Economic Outlook


Common cents

			It is legal, a German court ruled this week, for the German chancellor to support a bailout for Greece, Ireland, Portugal and whoever is next in line.
		
Mr. Thrifty
What revenue won't do
The roar of a train
August gloom







 


Featured Galleries

The tenth anniversary of 9/11



A day at the beach in Dalian, China



Tropical Storm Lee soaks New Orleans



Libyan Rebels take control of Tripoli



Students and Workers strike in Chile





Most Popular



1.
With lost iPhone, Apple beefs up security 


2.
Banks said to balk at 'robo-signing' offer


3.
Next iPhone to launch in October


4.
Sprint memo cryptic on iPhone 5


5.
Uncertainties keep crude oil in check





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 15
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			A light finger of fog makes its way through downtown San Francisco at dawn on September 7, 2011. Market Street is illuminated by traffic at right.  UPI/Terry Schmitt		













 





Theme of Farktography Contest No. 331: "Farktography Classic: Black and White 3". Details and rules...

Remember the good ol' days when it was perfectly okay to vacuum-seal your toddler in cellophane?...

Woman armed with scooter tussles with woman armed with urinating beagle

Question: Why did 9/11 attackers visit Las Vegas five times before the attacks? Answer: Because...

Waiter, there's a new species in my soup

Bananas: Intelligently designed to fit into your hand...and to be completely wiped out by a fungal...


  





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


















