As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids? - Shine from Yahoo! Canada



 Skip to search.     New User? Register  Sign In 		Help	  Make Y! My Homepage  Yahoo!Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.Select "Yes" from the pop up window.Nothing, you're done.If this didn't work for you see detailed instructionsClose this window    Mail    My Y!    Yahoo!                 Yahoo! Shine              Search   Search Web       
HomeVideosPhotosIn The Dressing Room With Cat DeeleyBack to SchoolFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty


Trending Now»daily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots



















As "Kate Plus 8" signs off, what's next for the Gosselin kids?By Piper Weiss | Shine – 22 hours ago


The family in 2009, before Jon left the show. (Courtesy of TLC)


Their television career began in the womb.
Now 7 years old, the Gosselin sextuplets have had a longer run on
TV than the original Brady Bunch kids. Their childhood,
however, was unscripted. 
After TLC airs the Monday night finale of the series,

"Kate Plus 8" (formerly "Jon and Kate
Plus 8" until season 6) reality TV's most famous
siblings—Alexis, Hannah, Aaden, Collin, Leah and Joel— and their
10-year-old twin twin sisters— Cara and Mady— will finally resume
their life off camera. Or will they?
After news of her show’s cancellation, mom Kate Gosselin
tweeted about her 10-year-old daughter
Mady’s desire to stay in the spotlight: “Aww that Mady… So well
spoken! Wants to do MORE TV!!! Disney anyone? Lol”
Regardless of plans for her brood, Kate wants to keep her own TV
career afloat. She’ll be guest-hosting on CBS's daytime show
“The Talk” next. That means her identity as a multiples mom will
keep her children leashed into the public domain, like it or
not.Related Link: Are leashes for kids cruel or kind?
“I want to stay in TV because I feel comfortable there, it’s an
exciting life,” Kate said in an interview with People Magazine last week.
But exciting isn’t the first word that comes to mind looking
back on her family's televised travails. What began in
2006 as a one-hour special on her pregnancy soon mushroomed into an
epic televised destruction of a marriage. The show turned from
wacky parenting challenges to a story of a love-less relationship
and one couple’s competition for the spotlight. Kate promoted her
books, went on speaking tours, and got a "Dancing with the Stars"
makeover. Meanwhile, Jon’s mid-life crisis crash-intersected
with reality fame, chock full of quick and dirty tabloid-centric
relationships (including a bromance with Michael Lohan) and some
very public legal battles with his ex.  
The eight Gosselin kids were casualties. Rumors of behavioral
problems were followed by reports of school expulsions. Alexis and Collin were
removed from their private school and educated at home for a stint
before returning. But they weren’t always welcome. 
The parents of Gosselin classmates complained about their
excessive security presence. A Facebook group called "Jon and
Kate Plus 8 Ruined Our School" was launched. "If you
attend Lancaster Country Day School, and you feel that unnecessary
changes have been made to accommodate the Gosselin Children, please
join," reads the description. 
If parents can be cruel, so can their kids. How will their
classmates treat the in-house celebrities whose potty training
exploits remain archived on YouTube? Even without the cameras, is
it too late for these kids to live a normal life?
While Jon took to rumorfix.com this past week to say he'd
welcome his kids' return to normalcy, mom Kate told People
she's worried about keeping her kids' home and school in
tact without their TV income. Equally concerned are her kids.Related Link: How much should you interfere in your child's life?
"The scary thing is when kids are used to being providers
for their family," says Dr. Hilary Levey-Friedman, a Harvard
sociologist who's written extensively about reality TV families.
"The Gosselin kids shouldn’t be aware that their show pays for
their school, they shouldn't even have to worry about
that."
The money, which Kate admits to be a driving force her
family's TV career, can have long-term consequences, both good
and bad.  
 
Kate, in New York in August, hopes to stay a fixture on TV. (Ray Tamarra/Getty Images …


After a 2010 investigation into the show's child labor
practices, the Pennsylvania Bureau of Labor Law Compliance mandated
that 15 percent of the children’s proceeds from the show be placed
in a trust fund for their future. It could afford them the kind of
educational opportunities large families on fixed incomes don't
have access to. But it could also create a habit-forming need for
attention.

"The money focus is one that's been tied to long-term
psychological damage for child stars raised supporting their
families. Even studies of kids who grew up in the Depression have
shown that a stressful relationship with spending money in
childhood can stay with you as an adult," says Levey-Friedman.
"For the rest of their lives, they may think they have to act
a certain way to make money."
A patchwork of former child stars who struggled to maintain
their stardom as adults is testament. Being raised on camera tends
to stick, almost like a family business. Two current members of the
"Real Housewives of Beverly Hills", both moms now,
returned to the spotlight after their career as kid stars screeched
to a halt. Kelly Osbourne, an early example of reality show
offspring, has made a career as an on-camera fashion pundit and the
continuing saga of both the Duggar and Manzo families has spawned
sibling spin-off shows now in development.Related Link: The perks of having kids
"The good thing is that sometimes it can translate to
behind-the-scenes work, because these kids get a unique exposure to
the way entertainment is made," adds Levey-Friedman.
Several members of the Loud family, whose teenage upbringing was
captured in the 1970's PBS series "An American
Family", ended up forging a career as entertainment writers
and TV marketing executives. 
But that was last century. In 2011, it's harder to retreat
into the background once you're front-and-center in the
frame.
The Gosselins' televised childhood experiences, from dentist
visits to amusement park meltdowns, live in perpetuity on the
Internet and so do their peers. In the near future, fellow
classmates and neighbors can snap cell phone pictures and leak
gossip to celebrity blogs in seconds. Even in their own moment of
attention-seeking, a revealing Facebook update could land Mady,
Cara, Leah or Collin, in a very unpleasant public situation, as
we've witnessed via the YouTube and Twitter accounts of the "Teen Moms". Once
you're on reality TV, you're not like other kids.
You're not even like the other child stars.
“Take someone like Miley Cyrus. A company like Disney can still
on some level protect its child stars," Levey-Friedman says.
"But when you're a reality star and you are the main
character of a show, it's much more difficult to protect your
privacy."
 
In 2009, a family trip to the store turns into a spectacle. (Ray Tamarra/Getty Images …


Jon and Kate still seem to differ on whether that loss of
privacy was worth it. 
"I hope they can have more private family moments,"
Jon told Radar with regards to the show ending. "I hope that
this will bring more privacy to my children and that they can get
the proper attention they need for any personal issues they might
have in the future."
Kate sees it another way: "They gave up some freedom, some
privacy. As a trade-off we live in a great house...and they go to a
great school." 
It's possible the kids can have it both ways. Now that the
show is over, they may eventually recede into a more normal life,
with a unique knowledge of entertainment and the financial
opportunity to foster it in their back pocket.Related Link: 10 parenting etiquette dilemmas- solved
"Kids are remarkably resilient," says Levey-Friedman.
"What they might be like tomorrow is different from what they
might be like five months, or five years from now. What really
makes the difference is the kind of stability they get from their
family." 
That remains a big question mark, as the Gosselin kids'
entourage of camera crew, nannies and security detail— a kind of extended family— all fall away and
they're left with two parents at odds with each other. 
“Check back in when they’re teenagers,” Kate told People. That
gives the eldest siblings, Cara and Mady, at least three years to
develop without a theme song or microphone packs clipped to their
belt loops. If they're lucky, they'll get a little more
time than that.  






All Comments
Shared On Facebook


 Sign in  to post a comment, or  Sign up  for a free account.
			




                     


Leave a comment...
Comment Guidelines






Please Enter a Comment




Post














                        46 comments
                        


Popular Now
Newest
Oldest

Most Replied













GARY
37 minutes ago

Kate should not be worrying about money yet. If she saved the past 8 yrs from the show she should have alot saved or was she justv greedy and now screwed. She treated John terribly. She was a demanding bitch. Then it turned to be more about her than the kids.




 








batchen
44 minutes ago

People stopped watching when Jon left and all you saw was Kate whining, complaining a being a diva.  The Talk shows ratings will drop if she is there for sure.




 








S.L.W.
2 hours ago

I'm normally not ass on the Yahoo forums, but, anyone who is surprised by the fact that these kids are messed up should be ashamed of themselves.  As for those who've watched this garbage - and the like - over the past few years...I really hope you question the fruitfulness of watching "reality tv"; especially when it involves minors. 

I truly hope that Kate Gosselin is disgusted with herself.  She exploited the lives of her children under the guise of providing a future for them.  Granted, that might have been her motivation for the first few years of their lives...prior to her book tours, media stardom and the subsequent breakdown of her marriage.

Television entertainment shouldn't revolve around an obsession over the "real" lives of others.  If you want an escape from your everyday, watch a sitcom, or, better yet, pick up a good book!  If you've had the patience to read this far into my comment, I thank you and ask you to think about the fact that the popularity of this type of media is a reflection on our North American culture.  That's not a good thing.




 








elaine
2 hours ago

well when their mother is a money hungry, publicity hound, who exploits her children what kind of normal life can they expect. i hate reality tv cause it's as far from reality as possible after all they have editors and producers. however i always felt that these children will have problems adjusting when nobody wants to know or care what they do. shame on tlc, shame on their parents.




 








Loo
5 hours ago

Yeah Kate, your kids have made enough money for you already...it's time for them to live a normal life outside of the limelite.  You just got to use to the attention, seems like you are never home with the kids anymore.




 








Major tom
5 hours ago

I watched tonight's show for about 15 minutes and all she did is screamed at her ex at home, outside, in restaurants in stores just unbelievable. She has some major control issues and an unfounded superiority complex. But now, the real reality show begins, how will she fair on her own, did she save money for the kids or did she waist it on herself plus no one to scream at, what will she do next...




 








frostburn
6 hours ago

watched it for 5min and she a piece of crap, she shouldnt even have kids.




 








TK
6 hours ago

I can't believe she treated Ashley her babysitter with so much hostility.




 








donnie d
7 hours ago

to those kids..please dont ever be like your mother..she was a very nasty person who treated your DADDY like dirt...




 








JODI
7 hours ago

WHO CARES????  Your 15 minutes are up.........NEXT!




 








donnie d
7 hours ago

hopefully she wont be so crule and evil towards her kids as she was towards her x-husban..poor john was treated so  badly by her...




 








donnie d
7 hours ago

to bad john was being treated so badly by the witch..she destroyed there marriage....hope the kids will not be like her




 








carpe diem
8 hours ago

Forget about Kate. Those kids are damn lucky! Let’s wait and see…




 








Timinator
8 hours ago

White trash reality.




 








D
8 hours ago

Well. there goes The Talk show. She will cause theratings to go down real fast. Nobody wants to see this women anymore, that's why the show got canceled. She needs to get a real job and raise her kids away from the public eye. If I were her I would return that sports car. She could of taken that money and put it to better use. She doesn't have a brain in her head except to exploit her children.




 








WonderWomen
9 hours ago

Kate is a nice lady and did an amazing job with raising those kids ON HER OWN. The kids love life and have experienced so much. Kate has given them an amazing life and they are so lucky to have a Mother like that.




 








cjf
9 hours ago

Who the #$%$ cares.




 








Lindsay
10 hours ago

Those poor kids.




 








a yahoo user
10 hours ago

Kate, you are not a celebrity, go home, bake some cookies for your kids, and get a job!!!
its over!!!!




 








Ann
10 hours ago

Enough already!!!  There are a hell of a lot more important issues besides Kate and her brood!!!  Get real, get a real job.  You are NOT a celebrity, you are a woman who chose to exploit your children!!!!!!








   More
                        



 Post a comment
                       	











Shine Photo Galleriesprevnext
New York Fashion Week
2011 Toronto International Film Festival
5 Fall Red Lip Trends to Try
Iconic Elizabeth Taylor jewels to be auc …

More Photos >>
Popular StoriesRuffling Feathers in Montreal: Gordon Ramsay's Canadian RotisserieFood Network - 14 hours agoCancer-fighting virus50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 tips for healthy kids50Plus.com - 15 hours ago8 tips for surviving fall allergies50Plus.com - 15 hours ago10 habits for a heart healthy lifestyle50Plus.com - 15 hours ago

Latest Shine Videosprevnext
Play Video'Miracle Babies' Last Hope
Play VideoCould SpongeBob Be Bad for Kid …
Play VideoAnxiety about abductor
Play VideoPink fire truck hits the stree …

More Videos >>
Friends' Activity









Today on Yahoo!1 - 5 of 48prevnext
Clinton's surprise gesture at 9/11 memorial
Teen star's TIFF outfit raises eyebrows
The 25 most powerful images from 9/11
Why did the Twin Towers really collapse?
See the cast of 'Home Improvement' now















Shine on Yahoo! CanadaHomeFashionHealthy LivingFoodLove & SexParentingHome & DesignHoroscopesYour Beauty




Also On Yahoo!FinanceWeatherAll Yahoo! Canada »


Trending Nowdaily salt intakeKeira KnightleyBlackberry recipesPortia de RossiFall 2011 boots














                Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Canada Co. All Rights Reserved.
            



Help / Suggestions
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Copyright/IP Policy















