Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes - Forbes.com
Home
Business
Tech
Markets
Entrepreneurs
Leadership
Personal Finance
ForbesLife
Lists
Opinions
Video
Blogs
E-mail Newsletters
Portfolio Tracker
Special Reports
Commerce
Energy
Health Care
Logistics
Manufacturing
Media
Services
Technology
Wall Street
Washington
CIO Network
Enterprise Tech
Infoimaging
Internet Infrastructure
Internet
Personal Tech
Sciences
Security
Wireless
Bonds
Commodities
Currencies
Economy
Emerging Markets
Equities
Options
Finance
Human Resources
Law & Taxation
Sales & Marketing
Management
Technology
Careers
Compensation
Corporate Citizenship
Corporate Governance
Managing
Innovation
CEO Network
Reference
ETFs
Guru Insights
Investing Ideas
Investor Education
Mutual Funds
Philanthropy
Retirement & College
Taxes & Estates
Collecting
Health
Real Estate
Sports
Style
Travel
Vehicles
Wine & Food
100 Top Celebrities
400 Richest Americans
Largest Private Cos
World's Richest People
All Forbes Lists
Business Opinions
Investing
Technology Opinions
Washington & The World
Companies
People
Reference
Technology
Companies
Events
People
Reference
Companies
People
Companies
Events
People
Reference
Companies
Events
People
Reference




































Associated Press
Central Texas wildfire destroys nearly 800 homes
By JIM VERTUNO
    ,
 




09.07.11, 12:14 PM EDT









BASTROP, Texas --
                                                                                        The number of homes destroyed in a devastating Central Texas wildfire has risen to nearly 800, but an official says firefighters had a "good night" battling the blaze.The Texas Forest Service said Wednesday that the Bastrop County blaze had consumed 785 homes, and more than 1,000 homes statewide have been reported lost in the past three days.Article Controlsemailreprintnewslettercommentssharedel.icio.usDigg It!yahooFacebookTwitterRedditrssBut Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald says no structures were lost overnight in the battle to contain the 33,000-acre blaze about 25 miles east of Austin. Officials say containment remains at 30 percent.The forest service says it responded to 19 new fires Wednesday totaling 1,490 acres, bringing the count over the past week to more than 170 fires consuming more than 130,000 acres.THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. Check back soon for further information. AP's earlier story is below.Firefighting crews started Wednesday to gain control of a wind-stoked blaze that has raged unchecked across parched Central Texas for days, leaving a trail of charred properties in its wake and causing thousands of people to flee.



Read All Comments


As the crisis unfolded, Gov. Rick Perry was faced with the decision to leave the state and participate in a GOP presidential debate or stay at home and command operations to fight the disaster.At least two people have died in the wildfire, which has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin.Texas Task Force 1, an elite search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will be assisting in Bastrop.The team has dogs that can help look for people trapped in debris, Chief Bob McKee told The Associated Press. "We also have human remains canines that would scent on deceased persons or animals," McKee said.Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Texas Forest Service spokeswoman April Saginor said the Bastrop fire was 30 percent contained early Wednesday, and that the lighter winds were assisting firefighters in their efforts."Even though the fuels are critically dry, the grass is dry and the relative humidity is still pretty low, they were able to take advantage of lower winds," Saginor said.The blaze in Bastrop is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state's firefighting ranks to the limit.Bastrop residents weren't all appeased by reports that the fire had been somewhat contained. Paul St. Louis, who left behind goats, pigs and roosters when he evacuated his home on Sunday, lashed out at state and local officials and said federal emergency management officials should have been brought in sooner.St. Louis said he was frustrated by a lack of information and that he hadn't seen an updated fire map that would tell him if his home was still standing. A map posted outside the fire response headquarters Wednesday morning was last updated at 2 p.m. Tuesday."It seems there was no plan to deal with a catastrophe," he said. "I have animals to feed. You can't get back there. You're stranded. No one will tell us anything. All they say is `I don't know.'"McKee said the task force members would be producing updated maps, but that their role had yet to be defined."The purpose of deploying Texas Task Force 1 is to support the community of Bastrop," he said."Once we get there today and get into the local area, then they'll decide where we can be best used," McKee said.Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop. The governor has yet to decide whether he will attend the Republican presidential debate in California Wednesday night.The conservative Republican said he expects federal assistance with the wildfires but complained that red tape was keeping available bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army's Fort Hood, about 75 miles from Bastrop. The post was fighting its own 3,700-acre blaze.White House spokesman Jay Carney said the Obama administration has approved seven federal grants to help Texas with the latest wildfires.About 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. Five heavy tanker planes, some from the federal government, and three aircraft capable of scooping 1,500 gallons of lake water at a time also helped.The disaster is blamed largely on Texas' yearlong drought, one of the most severe dry spells the state has ever seen. The fire in Bastrop County is the most devastating wildfire in Texas in more than a decade, eclipsing a blaze that destroyed 168 homes in North Texas in April.At least 11 other fires exceeded 1,000 acres Tuesday, including a 7,000-acre blaze that has destroyed at least 60 homes and threatened hundreds more about 40 miles northwest of Houston. An 8,000-acre fire has destroyed at least six homes in Caldwell County, next to Bastrop County. In far northeast Texas' Cass County, a 7,000-acre fire burned in heavy timberland.About 40 people who fled their homes in a Bastrop neighborhood were staying at a community center in the town of Paige. A volunteer, Debbie Barrington, said some people have been sleeping outside on picnic tables under a pavilion, eating food and using toiletries donated by folks not hurt by the fires."The first night, we had a child 17 months old," she said. "We didn't have milk. The next morning, I think we had eight gallons. People heard what we needed and brought it in. The response has been unreal."Associated Press writers Michael Graczyk in Houston; Jamie Stengle, Danny Robbins, Diana Heidgerd and Schuyler Dixon in Dallas; Betsy Blaney in Lubbock; Will Weissert in Austin; Paul Weber in San Antonio; and AP photographer Eric Gay in Bastrop contributed to this report.
Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.





Obama's Jobs Agenda: An Infrastructure Bank that Robs You2012 Presidential Republican ContendersSome Cities Are Stabilizing, But U.S. Home Prices Could Be Stuck Until 2014Tax Deadline: Making Last-Minute Moves


Read All Comments



















































































































