Allstate Offers Central Texas Homeowners Advice As Wildfire Evacuations ContinueAllstate Offers Central Texas Homeowners Advice As Wildfire Evacuations Continue
With wildfires burning in Central Texas, Allstate (NYSE: ALL) is already responding and bringing resources into the area to help policyholders. But right now, safety must take precedence.
It’s vital to listen to instructions from local authorities. If nearby residents have been evacuated, or if evacuations may soon be a possibility, homeowners should prepare immediately for a quick departure. If it is safe to do so, Allstate encourages homeowners to consider the following steps when preparing to evacuate.
Before leaving the home…

Collect all important papers and documents. This includes banking, insurance, and financial information, as well as bills and checkbooks.
Think carefully about what items are easily replaceable by insurance and what items are not, like family heirlooms, keepsakes, and pictures.
If you don’t have an up-to-date home inventory, walk through your home with a video or still camera. At the same time, make a list of what items you want to take during an evacuation. An inventory can help facilitate the claim process.
Contact your Allstate agent to determine whether your homeowners policy provides for additional living expenses if you’ve been evacuated from your home under mandatory orders.

If leaving the home…

Respect local authorities and law enforcement decisions on when to evacuate and when it is safe to return home.
Notify neighbors and friends of your intended destination, and exchange contact information.

Allstate customers whose homes or automobiles have been damaged or destroyed by this wildfire, or were ordered by civil authorities to leave their homes can easily file a claim using one of the following methods:

Call or visit an Allstate agent.
Call Allstate at 1-800-547-8676
Report a claim online at Allstate.com.

In addition, Allstate is providing the following tips for homeowners when returning to their homes in the fire affected areas:

Make necessary temporary repairs. Check your policy to see if it provides reimbursement for temporary repairs that are needed as a result of the fire to prevent further loss. Keep an accurate, detailed record of temporary repair costs to submit to your adjuster for possible reimbursement.
Review your automobile policy. Talk to your agent to determine whether or not your auto insurance policy provides coverage if your vehicle is damaged by fire.

The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation’s largest publicly held personal lines insurer known for its “You’re In Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan. Now celebrating its 80th anniversary as an insurer, Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help nearly 16 million households insure what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Consumers access Allstate insurance products (auto, home, life and retirement) and services through Allstate agencies, independent agencies, and Allstate exclusive financial representatives in the U.S. and Canada, as well as via www.allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate®.