Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On Suspect's Legal Team                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On Suspect's Legal Team    Oranjestad :  Aruba
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Veronica Roberts              6 0      
Views: 569
         9.13.11. Oranjestad, Aruba]----In new interesting developments, Casey AnthonyCasey Anthony's lawyer has reportedly joined the legal team of man held in connection with the disappearance of his travel companion in Aruba. Jose Baez shot to celebrity status by defending and winning the murder case against 25-year-old Anthony in which she was charged with killing her 2-year-old daughter Caylee in Orange County, Florida. Baez announced on Tuesday that he would be "helping" 50-year-old businessman Gary Giordano now held in an Aruba jail after being arrested early August for his companion's disappearance on the Dutch Caribbean island, reported CNN. The suspect already has an Aruban lawyer, Michael Lopez, who reportedly said that according to his island's law, Baez cannot argue in court but can serve in a consulting capacity. Baez was hired by the suspect's father, Frank Giordano reported the Associated Press. Giordano's travel companion 35-year-old Robyn Gardener disappeared on August 2 after flying to Aruba with him for a 5 day vacation. Aruban investigators believe her to be dead but no hard evidence was found to connect the suspect to a crime. The Gaithersburg, Maryland millionaire allegedly tried to collect a $1.5 million travel insurance he had taken out on the missing woman and police reportedly have video of him acting suspiciously on the day the dental assistant from Maryland disappeared. They also have a camera confiscated from Giordano with alleged "beyond pornographic" pics of the missing Gardener. Giordano told police that his companion disappeared after a snorkelling trip but her boyfriend said that was highly unlikely for Gardener was obsessive about perfect hair and make-up. The two reportedly met online about a year ago and no one knows if they had met in person before the Aruba vacation. Though Giordano is behind bars, he has not been charged with a crime.        1 of 1        
Casey Anthony's lawyer now Aruba suspects lawyer
        
Veronica Roberts is based in New York City, New York, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (50.7%) Ireland (8.4%) Philippines (7.5%) Indonesia (5.9%) 31 other countries (23.2%)           READ MORE: Gary Giordano, Casey Anthony, Jose Baez, legal team, Aruban   More News From: Oranjestad :  Aruba      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 3            Reply  Posted By       vutrongphu20
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
well done job rated up! thank you!! rate up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the news of the suspect in Robyn's disappearence.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       tilawatshah
|
about 5 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this intrusting news. Rated up....
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
    News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest    Franklin & Marshall Clothes  Submitted By: jamelucy
| about 7 hours ago
 
An unlikely uncover over a London street, a healthful dose of intuition as well as the desire to permit males and girls to connect their confidential identities is possibly probably the most very helpful method to describe Franklin &...    Casey Anthony's lawyer joins defense in Aruba case  
Examiner
 Jose Baez said he has been retained to defend Gary Giordano in the Dutch Caribbean island. Baez confirmed his hiring in a text message to The Associated Press but declined to provide details about his role in the Aruba case. Giordano's Aruban lawyer,...    Casey Anthony's Lawyer Jose Baez to Represent Gary Giordano  
People
 Gary Giordano , the man suspected in the disappearance of Robyn Gardner in Aruba. Giordano, 50, has been held without charges for over a month since he reported the disappearance of Gardner, 35, with whom he was vacationing on the Caribbean island...    Aruba Murder Suspect Gary Giordano Hires Casey Anthony's Lawyer Jose Baez  
TMZ
 Phone Number (required): -- Enter your phone number...Jose Baez Casey's Lawyer Now Defending Aruba Suspect Gary Giordano Casey Anthony 's attorney Jose Baez must love a challenge -- because he's been retained to help defend the main suspect in a...    EXCLUSIVE: Baez Tapped to Represent Suspect in Case of U.S. Woman's ...  
Fox News
 Casey Anthony, front right, walks out of the Orange County Jail with her attorney Jose Baez, left, during her release in Orlando, Fla., early Sunday, July 17, 2011. Anthony was acquitted of murder in the death of her daughter, Caylee. Jose Baez, the...    Jose Baez to represent suspect in Aruba disappearance  
Orlando Sentinel Online
 Jose Baez smiles during the Aug. 5 hearing on Casey Anthony's probation. Photo credit: Joe Burbank/Orlando Sentinel Jose Baez became a regular TV presence during the Casey Anthony case, and he could be back soon in a big way because of another...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Casey Anthony's lawyer now on ...    Casey Anthony's lawyer now on ... Image Source: allvoices Casey Anthony's lawyer now Aruba suspects lawyer      More Related Images    More From Oranjestad          Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On Suspect's Legal Team        New witnesses sought in Aruba missing case         Update On Woman Missing In Aruba:Suspect Has "Beyond Pornographic Pics" Of Her. Tried To Collect $1.5 M Insurance       Help Find Robyn Colson - Gardner : Missing in Aruba          2 Striking Blondes, Same Beach In Aruba:Missing Robyn Gardner & Natalee Holloway Share Eerie Similarities        Mother of Robyn Gardner grateful to Aruba authorities, hopes to find her daughter        Sex And The City       THE 25TH ARUBA HI-WINDS TO BE HELD IN PALM BEACH DURING 29 JUNE TO 4 JULY 2011          Natalee Holloway: Justice for Natalee Holloway        Great Caribbean        A great island        The sweet island life                    Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10328797      Related People              Casey Anthony          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 13       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 3       Comments: 3    3       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10328797), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10328797 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10328797 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On Suspect's Legal Team” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10328797-update-casey-anthonys-lawyer-now-on-legal-team-of-suspect-held-in-aruba-for-missing-robyn-gardener.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         