Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?     Kabul :  Afghanistan
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By Dava Castillo             5 0      
Views: 503
         September 13, 2011-- The U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, was the most recent target today of assaults on international embassies. The Taliban has claimed responsibility for the insurgents who coordinated the attacks with grenades and assault rifles at the embassy, NATO headquarters and other sites in Afghanistan's capital, as suicide bombers struck police buildings. “Afghan officials said attackers were hunkered down in a multi-storey building under construction that overlooks the NATO headquarters and US embassy, exchanging fire with security forces as two helicopters flew overhead,” according to the Hindustan Times. A five-hour gun battle between insurgents and police resulted in the deaths of four civilians and two policemen. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the U.S. will not be intimidated by the attacks and will pursue the attackers. In 2001, the American Embassy in Kabul, though vacant at the time, was burned by rioters protesting possible military action in Afghanistan. No deaths were reported, but the attack remains a grim reminder of the future ambivalence of the Afghan people in anticipation of an American presence. Last week, the Israeli Embassy in Cairo Egypt was also attacked: crowds smashed through an external security wall, tossed embassy papers from balconies and tore down the Israeli flag. Israel reported it was the worst act of aggression since Israel set up its embassy in Egypt, the first Arab country to sign a peace treaty with the Jewish state. Embassies Are Targets for Insurgents  From 1998-2003, a report by CBC cited more than 40 attacks on embassies worldwide. Embassy attacks, however, are nothing new: in 1979, a group of Iranian students who were angry at the United States attacked and seized its embassy in Tehran, Iran. They were supported by the country's leader, Ayatollah Khomeini. Wikipedia iists 109 attacks on embassies around the world since 1829, with the frequency increasing in the last 13 years. Attacks on American Embassies In 1983, a large vehicle packed with explosives was driven into the U.S. Embassy compound in Beirut, where it exploded, killing 63 people. A group of terrorists called the Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility. Then again in 1984, a van filled with explosives sped through several barriers and groups of U.S. soldiers and stopped about 30 feet in front of the embassy annex. The driver of the van and 12 soldiers and visitors to the annex were killed. A terrorist group called the Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility. In 1983 a truck loaded with explosives crashed into the U.S. Embassy anex in Kuwait. Four people were killed, and at least 62 were injured. Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility. In 2002 the American Embassy in Karachi, Pakistan, was attacked, and 12 people are killed and dozens injured in a car-bomb attack on the consulate-general. In the same year, the American Embassy in Lima, Peru, was bombed, killing nine and wounding 32. Shining Path Rebels were suspects. The U.S. Embassy in Yemen was attacked in 2008, killing 17 people, both Americans and Yemenis. On July 11, 2011, ”Syrian government supporters smashed windows at the U.S. Embassy in Damascus on Monday, raised a Syrian flag and scrawled graffiti calling the American ambassador a ‘dog’ in anger over the envoy's visit last week to an opposition stronghold,” according to newsy.com. These are just a few of the attacks, but they give an overview of the culture and vulnerability of embassies under siege. People who work in the diplomatic corps do so at risk; further, their families can also be threatened by attacks. American Foreign Service The U.S. Foreign Service is a branch of the U.S. federal government and consists of approximately 11,500 professionals carrying out the foreign policy of the U.S. and aiding U.S. citizens abroad. It was created in 1924 by the Rogers Act, which combined all consular and diplomatic services of the U.S. into one unit and assigned diplomats abroad. Members are selected through written and oral examinations and serve in 265 missions around the world, including embassies, consulates and other facilities. The Geneva Convention Protects Embassies  Embassies are protected under articles 22, 29, and 30 of the Geneva Convention, which states: 1. The premises of the mission shall be inviolable. The agents of the receiving State may not enter them, except with the consent of the head of the mission.2. The receiving State is under a special duty to take all appropriate steps to protect the premises of the mission against any intrusion or damage and to prevent any disturbance of the peace of the mission or impairment of its dignity.3. The premises of the mission, their furnishings and other property thereon and the means of transport of the mission shall be immune from search, requisition, attachment or execution. Article 29 provides that "The person of a diplomatic agent shall be inviolable. He shall not be liable to any form of arrest or detention. The receiving State shall treat him with due respect and shall take all appropriate steps to prevent any attack on his person, freedom or dignity." Article 30 grants the private residence of a diplomatic agent, her/his papers, correspondence, and his property (except it is of a private commercial nature) the same inviolability and protection as the premises of the mission. Sovereignty  Despite these protections, embassies are not sovereign territory. Inviolability does not mean that embassies are granted territory. The land and buildings remain the territory of the receiving countries. This suspends certain rights normally associated with the control territory. Embassies do not have police or courts on the premises. Thus, if a crime is committed within an embassy, that crime occurs on the soil of the receiving state, not that of the sending state. If embassy personnel apprehend a burglar on the premises, they have no right to try to impose sentence. Instead, they must hand the offender over to the authorities of the host state for prosecution. In Fatemi v. United States (1963), the court stated "(1) that a foreign embassy is not to be considered the territory of the sending state; and (2) that local police [invited by the ambassador] have the authority and responsibility to enter a foreign embassy if the privilege of diplomatic inviolability is not invoked when an offense is committed there in violation of local law." History and Future of Diplomacy A diplomatic mission is the permanent mission, namely the office of a country's diplomatic representatives in the capital city of another country. As well as being a diplomatic mission to the country in which it is situated, it may also be a non-resident permanent mission to one or more other countries. Genghis Khan (1162-1227) had the reputation of a ruthless conqueror, and not without good reason. But he also had the power of uniting the Confederations of Central Asia Plateau with tribes like the Mongols, Merkitsm, Tatars, Naimans and Uyghurs, which was a testament to his diplomacy. He was one of the first to protect diplomats in conquered territories and demand his diplomats have immunity in those countries. He was the first to declare diplomatic immunity to individuals representing foreign countries in his territories. In James Michener’s book Poland, he writes about "the Scourge of Asia": "He was, in these early years of the thirteenth century, incomparably the greatest general in Asia and probably in the world. [Genghis Khan] was a cruel genius whose simple rule was: 'Leave no conquered leader behind who might rally his horsemen.' When he subdued an area he killed off all leaders, distributed survivors over vast and differing districts, then galloped off with his booty to the next challenge. Like the Tartars, he destroyed existing orders; unlike them, he established new systems which would endure for centuries. " Attacks on vulnerable embassies around the world are a trend that has risen incrementally with the increase in terrorism. Some suggest that motives for martyrdom and suicide missions are one of the reasons, as well as being one of the most lethal tactics employed by terrorist and insurgent groups today. If diplomatic missions are to continue to be the bridges between countries, it needs to be globally understood and recognized that embassies are islands of peace, autonomy and open communication, instead of targets for politically motivated violence. Resources Hindustan Times Ahramonline.org.eg Thenewdiplomacya.blogspot.com Humansecuritygateway.com Poland by James Michener Wikipedia Newsy.com        1 of 38        
Afghan police fire at insurgents attacking the American Embassy in Kabul Pakistan today.
         
Dava Castillo is based in Clearlake, California, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (61.7%) Canada (5.2%) Philippines (3.8%) Saudi Arabia (3.3%) 29 other countries (22.4%)           READ MORE: embassies, U.S. Foreign Service, American Embassy Attacks, americans embassies, claimed responsibility, Kabul Afghanistan, diplomatic mission, Central Asia Plateau, israeli, U.S. Embassy   More News From: Kabul :  Afghanistan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 6            Reply  Posted By       Orakul
|
about 12 hours
ago
  
Excellent post Dava. This was very informative. My son has studied the Mongols and absolutely thinks Genghis was a genius in his missions. Thanks for this article. I had him read it and he enjoyed it too. Rate up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       nikmahadi
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Excellent reporting, what the unhumane act ? Rate up, pls comment on my story as well, tq
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Surya Gaire
|
about 10 hours
ago
  
Nicely compiled and presented, thumbs up, rated up
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Dava Castillo
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you all for reading and commenting.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
Thank you for sharing the report. Could it be we are living in the Last Days?
    
​        Reply  Posted By       JacqueeT
|
about 8 hours
ago
  
Thank you for the thorough and thought-provoking information. It's interesting to learn how embassies on foreign soil are protected, and hwo they are NOT protected.
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          A Taliban commander attacks the U.S. Embassy and NATO headquarters in ... By: Vicky247      In a series of coordinated attacks, the Taliban have attacked with rifles and explosives, the U.S. Embassy, ​​the headquarters of NATO and Afghan police several buildings here in Kabul. It is the third major attack sufferer since June, the capital of Afghanistan, which has become a prime target for the insurgency, just at the beginning of ...  about 13 hours ago     Afghan gunfight: Kabul police battle insurgents By: aniskhan26      Afghan and international security forces have been battling a multi-pronged attack by insurgents targeting the US embassy, Nato headquarters and police buildings in Kabul.
Police are still exchanging fire with at least one gunman holed up in an unfinished high-rise building overlooking the diplomatic quarter.
Six people have been killed and 16 ...  about 15 hours ago     Taliban executes attacks in Kabul and targeting embassies By: karasiwo      Taliban fighters launched a suicide attack in Afghan capital multiple on Tuesday, firing rockets at the U.S. embassy and three other countries and sending suicide bombers to targets in the west of the city and near the airport.At least two civilians and two policemen were killed and 22 people were injured in the attacks. More than a dozen ...  about 16 hours ago     Afghanistan: the continuing attacks in Kabul By: egyjan25       the Afghan capital Kabul saw  in the evening,  bombs and firearms began this morning.Security forces exchanged fire with two militants holed up in a building overlooking the diplomatic quarter in the city.Heaing  a series of explosions in the area believed that the gunmen were holed up in one of the buildings.Taliban claimed ...  about 16 hours ago     US Embassy, NATO and government buildings attacked in Kabul by ... By: Samantha86      
The US Embassy, NATO and government buildings were attacked in central Kabul by the Taliban today. Two civilians and four afghan police officers have been killed in the attack. The Afghan Taliban have claimed responsibility for the attacks.
No staff member has been reported wounded, according to an embassy spokesman. However, Kabul police ...  about 17 hours ago     U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan with Taliban attack  By: lethibichlan      Taliban fired a gun into the target U.S. embassy, ​​several other embassies and headquarters of Force International Security Assistance (ISAF) in Afghanistan's capital Kabul in the afternoon on 13-9. Three other suicide bombers have attacked targets to the west of the capital, in areas near airports. At least two civilians and two ...  about 19 hours ago     Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32       The U.S. embassy and NATO buildings have been among those targeted in a coordinated attack by Taliban involving several suicide bombers in Kabul. Rocket propelled grenades are also being used 
 Attackers took over a multi-storey building under construction near the diplomatic district in the Afghan capital and were firing rockets ...  about 20 hours ago     Taliban insurgents attack Kabul target U.S. embassy By: faraway      Kabul
was rocked by a series of explosions on Tuesday as part of an offensive
by the Taliban, who say they have launched a "massive suicide attack"
against foreign intelligence services and Afghanistan in the Afghan
capital.Several powerful bomb exploded in the afternoon, near the embassy district in central Kabul, and shots were heard ...  about 20 hours ago     5 killed as Taliban attacks U.S. embassy By: shiraxinco      
Five suicide bombers were killed late Tuesday when at least seven armed insurgents attacked different parts of the Afghan capital, Kabul, including the U.S. Embassy and the NATO headquarters in Kabul, police said.
 
"Five suicide bombers have been eliminated by the security forces since the attacks broke out in Kabul on Tuesday afternoon,"...  about 20 hours ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Rockets Fired Toward U.S. Embassy In Afghanistan  
National Public Radio
 Embassy In Afghanistan September 13, 2011 Insurgents fired rockets and assault rifles in the direction of the U.S. Tuesday as gunfire and explosions rocked the heart of the Afghan capital...The surge of violence was a stark reminder of the...    Taliban attack Kabul, target U.S. embassy, NATO buildings  
Toronto Star
 Afghan policemen arrive at the site of a rocket-propelled attack in Kabul on Tuesday...Kabul on Tuesday and attacked police in three other areas in the biggest assault the insurgent group has mounted on the Afghan capital...The fighters had chosen a...    Gunmen attack US embassy in Kabul  
The Independent
 Near the heavily fortified diplomatic district, insurgents took over a multi-storey building under construction and fired rockets in the direction of several embassy and Nato compounds. In western Kabul, just a few kilometres away, a suicide bomber...    Taliban target NATO, US embassy in Kabul  
Channel NewsAsia
 Gunfire and blasts engulfed what is usually the most heavily protected part of the Afghan capital, with a Taliban insurgency now at its deadliest since US-led troops ousted the Islamists' regime after the 9/11 attacks 10 years ago. The attacks were...    Reports: Insurgents Attack Embassy District in Kabul  
Voice of America
 A series of loud explosions and gunfire has rocked the Afghan capital of Kabul on Tuesday. A VOA correspondent confirms that there have been multiple explosions, as well as gunfire, near the International Security Assistance Force headquarters in...    Taliban attack US embassy, other buildings in Kabul  
Pak Tribune
 Taliban attacks in downtown Kabul on Tuesday killed six people and wounded 15 others, an Afghan interior ministry official told AFP...The coordinated assaults coming two days after the United States marked the 10th anniversary of the September 11...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Afghan Police     Afghan Police  Image Source: allvoices Afghan police fire at insurgents attacking the American Embassy in Kabul ...        The blast took place near the ...    The blast took place near the ... Image Source: www.afp.com The blast took place near the foreign ministry in Kabul's embassy district        The blast occurred near the ...    The blast occurred near the ... Image Source: www.afp.com The blast occurred near the foreign ministry in Kabul's embassy district        Foreign troops arrive at the ...    Foreign troops arrive at the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Foreign troops arrive at the site of a suicide attack in Kabul        Afghan policemen fire towards ...    Afghan policemen fire towards ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Afghan policemen fire towards a building which the Taliban insurgents took ...        Afghan policemen fire toward a ...    Afghan policemen fire toward a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Afghan policemen fire toward a building which the Taliban insurgents took ...      More Related Images    More From Kabul          U.S. EMBASSY & NATO HEADQUARTERS ATTACKED BY MILITANTS        Afghan forces have killed Kabul insurgents        Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?         U.S. embassy in Afghanistan attack           Attack over Kabul by Taliban Insurgents Finally Ended        Taliban siege of Kabul ends with 14 dead        Fighting in Kabul ended after 19 hours        Taliban attacked on American embassy and NATO headquarter          Fighting goes on near Kabul US embassy        Taliban Attacks in Kabul Also Target Public Opinion        Kabul Live: 6 people killed and 15 wounded in attacks        September prgyarh completed ten years of U.S. attacks          Twelve hours of street battles in Kabul                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10326978          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 9       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 6       Images: 38       Comments: 6    6       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10326978), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10326978 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10326978 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive? ” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10326978-embassies-under-siege-worldwide-can-diplomacy-survive.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         