Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights    Harare :  Zimbabwe
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By richwebnews            4 4      
Views: 1,015
          Pakistan vs Zimbabwe 3rd ODI series is underway at Harare, Zimbabwe today. Brendan Taylor of Zimbabwe has won the toss and choose to bowl. Check live score, go here. Pakistan have been dominant in this series and are eyeing for whitewash to the hosts. Pakistan's run combined with veteran and new players seems been working so far. Their batting has been very solid, with skipper Misbah ul Haq having no problem. His young bowlers as they restricted the Zimbabwe batters to their minimum.  Meanwhile Zimbabwe's batting approach that lacks aggressiveness has been the reason for the losses. Brendan Taylor team clearly lcks penetration opting him to field in today's action.  Zimbabwe's bowlers will try to limit Mohammad HafeezMohammad Hafeez who got his century with 139 in the last meeting followed by Imran Farhat 75 runs helping Pakistan's 228 winning runs. Today's 3rd ODI action between Pakistan and Zimbabwe is in progress and seen Pakistan bats to 85 in 18 overs while absorbing 2 wickets so far. Could Zimbabwe avoid a whitewash? Check PAK vs ZIM live score, go here.        1 of 4        
Zimbabwe's batsman Waller completes a run during their second ODI cricket match against Pakistan at Harare Sports Club
         
richwebnews is based in San Francisco, California, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (56.6%) Pakistan (10.5%) Poland (6.6%) India (6.6%) 8 other countries (11.8%)           READ MORE: Cricket Live Score, PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI, odi series, odi highlights, Pakistan vs Zimbabwe live, pak vs zim live score, cricket score, akistan, pak vs zim, series, Cricket Live, cricket, crick, Day, Hafeez, Pakista, MISBAH UL HAQ, Brendan Taylor, Mohammad Hafeez, Pakistan batting, Zimbabwe bowling, live streaming, Pak vs Zim live streaming   More News From: Harare :  Zimbabwe      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                   Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Zimbabwe win toss, elect to bat in second ODI By: BakhtawarAbbas      
HARARE: Zimbabwe won the toss and elected to bat in the second One Day International at Harare Sports Club here on Sunday.
Zimbabwe make just one change from the side that lost the first ODI, bringing in Brian Vitori for Gregory Lamb.
Pakistan stick with the team that won in Bulawayo on Thursday.
Teams:
Zimbabwe: Brendan Taylor (capt), Vusi ...  3 days ago     Zimbabwe win toss, elect to bat in 2nd ODI By: NabeelAhmedKhan      HARARE - Zimbabwe won the toss and elected to bat in the second One Day International at Harare Sports Club here on Sunday.Zimbabwe make just one change from the side that lost the first ODI, bringing in Brian Vitori for Gregory Lamb.Pakistan stick with the team that won in Bulawayo on Thursday.TeamsPakistan: Mohammad Hafeez, Imran ...  3 days ago     Zimbabwe sent Pakistan to field in 2nd ODI By: hasnainanwer      
Zimbabwe won the toss and elected to bat in the second One Day International (ODI) against Pakistan at Harare Sports Club here on Sunday.
Zimbabwe make just one change from the side that lost the first ODI, bringing in Brian Vitori for Gregory Lamb.
Pakistan stick with the team that won in Bulawayo on Thursday as it survived well-composed, ...  3 days ago     Pakistan beat Zimbabwe in First ODI  By: safdarjaved       
Pakistan beat  Zimbabwe by 5 runs in the first One Day International and took the lead with 1-0 in the series in Bulawayo on Thursday.
 
Pakistan won the toss and elected to bat.
Younus Khan made 78 runs in 72 balls. Opener Mohammad Hafeez scored 26 runs. 
Misbah-ul Haq made 54 runs and  Umer Akmal 36 
Pakistan ...  5 days ago     Pakistan defeats Zimbabwe by five runs  By: zunairaumar      BULAWAYO: 
Pakistan defeated Zimbabwe by five runs in the first of three
one-day internationals in Bulawayo, .
While Pakistan opted to bat first, half-centuries from Younis Khan
and Misbahul Haq steered Pakistan to a score of 247 for seven.
Shoaib Malik and Imran Farhat made disappointing come backs to the Pakistan Cricket team as both ...  5 days ago     Pakistan sets 248 runs target for Zimbabwe in first ODI By: hasnainanwer      Pakistan after electing to bat in the first one day international have set a target of 248 for Zimbabwe. Younis Khan top scored for Pakistan with 78 runs and he was supported by captain Misbah-ul-Haq who scored 54. Pakistan looks to maintain the winning momentum in the limited-over series following their seven-wicket triumph in the one-off Test ...  5 days ago     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 1st ODI and highlights By: richwebnews      Pakistan vs Zimbabwe 1st ODI opens today in a dry pitch in Bulawayo. Pakistan will try to get their momentum going from a good show at Test. Check live score, go here.
Younus Khan join Mohammad Hafeez with impressive century for Pakistan mixed with younger bowlers. This ODI has made Pakistan make some few adjustments in recalling Shoaib Malik and I  6 days ago     Pakistan vs Zimbabwe 1st ODI Live  By: Shinkansen      Pakistan will face Zimbabwe in the first one day international at the Queens Sports Club on Thursday. Both teams scheduled to play 3-match ODI series followed by two T20 matches. While, Pakistan beat Zimbabwe in the one-off Test by 7 wickets.
The match scheduled to begin at 07:30 GMT, 09:30 Local Time & 12:30 Pakistan Time - September 08, 2011....  6 days ago     Cricket Live Score: Zimbabwe vs Pakistan Live Score 1st Test Day 2 and ... By: richwebnews      Zimbabwe vs Pakistan 1st Test Day 2 starts from where we left yesterday when host Zimbabwe shoots 254/4 in 90 overs. Check PAK vs ZIM Day 2 live score, go here.
Zimbabwe's Tino Mawoyo converts his 82 from 273 balls is determined to reach his century of the Test series today on Day 2 action. Pakistan bowler Saeed Ajmal so far will be give  12 days ago     Cricket Live Score: ZIM vs PAK one-off Test series By: richwebnews       
Zimbabwe will host Pakistan in one-off Test series today in Queens Sports Club, Bulawayo. Check live score, go here.
Zimbabwe just came off a win in a 2-game Test series against Bangladesh earlier this month will face a much tougher Pakistan team today. Zimbabwe are expecting seamer Brian Vitori back after a leg muscle strain he injured in ...  13 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Zimbabwe seek consolation win  
Cric Info
 September 14, Harare Sports Club Start time 0930 (0730 GMT) Big Picture Zimbabwe will want to stop their series against Pakistan from spiralling into a failure and the final ODI is their last chance to do so before the Twenty20s start. So far, they...    Zimbabwe: Butcher's Men Seek Win  
Africa Headlines
 Butcher's Men Seek Win 14 September 2011 THE Zimbabwe cricket team will be seeking a consolation win when they engage Pakistan in the last match of the One Day International series at Harare Sports Club today. The hosts trail the series 20 in the...    Cricket: Southee departs with top award under his belt  
New Zealand Herald
 Tim Southee heads to India on Sunday buoyed by having received an international award for the best T20 performance of the past year. The New Zealand seamer made it two years in a row for New Zealand in the International Cricket Council award for his...       Images    >         Zimbabwe's batsman Waller ...    Zimbabwe's batsman Waller ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Zimbabwe's batsman Waller completes a run during their second ODI cricket ...        Zimbabwe's batsman Tatenda ...    Zimbabwe's batsman Tatenda ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Zimbabwe's batsman Tatenda Taibu hits the ball during the 2nd ODI cricket ...        Zimbabwe bowler Brian Vitori (...    Zimbabwe bowler Brian Vitori (... Image Source: www.afp.com Zimbabwe bowler Brian Vitori (L) congratulates Pakistan opening pair of ...        Pakistan's Farhat and Tamvit ...    Pakistan's Farhat and Tamvit ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Pakistan's Farhat and Tamvit celebrates the dismissal of Zimbabwe's Taibu ...      More Related Images    More From Harare          Pakistan v Zimbabwe ODI (Live coverage)        Zimbabwe beat Pakistan by ten wickets         Sports News.        Surprised when the captain suddenly removed, skyb Hassan          Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights        Umar Gul, Wahab Riaz, and should take the tour in Zimbabwe, Moin Khan       Cricket : Third ODI between Pak & Zim, Pakistan batting        Pakistan 's Remarkable Openers Beat Zimbabwe:Pakistan 228,Ten Wickets In Hand.          In Harare Pakistan beat Zimbabwe by 10 Wickets in 2nd ODI.       Pakistan record 10-wkt win over Zimbabwe         Pakistan restrict Zimbabwe to 225-6 in 2nd ODI        Pakistan beats Zimbabwe in 2nd ODI , Hafeez, Imran record opening stand          Zimbabwe v Pakistan 2nd ODI Match Win By Ten Wicket New Record                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10332608      Related People              Mohammad Hafeez          Loading People...          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 3       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 7       Images: 5       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10332608), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10332608 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10332608 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10332608-cricket-live-score-pak-vs-zim-3rd-odi-series-and-highlights.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         