Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul    Kabul :  Afghanistan
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By northsunm32            2 0      
Views: 798
          The U.S. embassy and NATO buildings have been among those targeted in a coordinated attack by Taliban involving several suicide bombers in Kabul. Rocket propelled grenades are also being used   Attackers took over a multi-storey building under construction near the diplomatic district in the Afghan capital and were firing rockets in the direction of several embassy and NATO compounds. The American Embassy and NATO both said no staff were wounded. But Afghan officials reprt at least one Afghan police officer and two insurgents had been killed as gunfire and explosions resounded across the city well into the afternoon. This is the third major attack in Kabul since late June, Plumes of smoke rose from the area near the embassy and U.S. Army helicopters buzzed overhead.Police said the attack began when about half a dozen insurgents took over the building and began firing toward the embassy and the adjacent NATO headquarters. At last report the gun battle was still going on. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said a number of suicide bombers were attacking Afghan and foreign soldiers at Abdul Haq square. He claimed in a text message sent to reporters that suicide bombers using assault rifles also were attacking the offices of the Afghan intelligence service. The Taliban is obviously trying to show that they can operate even within the heart of the Karzai government in Kabul. Meterial abstracted from CBC report. Earlier the Taliban claimed responsibility for a truck bombing that injured at least 80 Americans. I enclose a video report.        1 of 65        
Afghan policemen arrive at the site of a rocket-propelled attack in Kabul on Sept. 13, 2011. Taliban suicide fighters launched an attack on central Kabul, taking over a multi-storey building under construction near the diplomatic district in the Afghan capital and firing rockets in the direction of several embassy and NATO compounds.
        
northsunm32 is based in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (61.0%) Afghanistan (11.2%) Canada (5.2%) China (2.9%) 37 other countries (16.9%)           READ MORE: Afghanistan, Taliban, Kabul, afghan, Suicide Bomber, embassy, nato headquarters   More News From: Kabul :  Afghanistan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By       Robert Weller
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
Although it is not anywhere near the size of the Tet offensive one wonders if it could have the same impact on the American people, who already are tired of the war.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       Zafar Khan
|
about 17 hours
ago
  
Islam is the religion of peace. i do not understand why they are doing this.
    
​        Reply  Posted By       nikmahadi
|
about 11 hours
ago
  
Nice reporting, thanks for sharing,pls comment on my story as well
    
​        Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
|
about 9 hours
ago
  
It is a shame that war never solves anything but more wounds for mankind to suffer through.
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Kabul Live: 6 people killed and 15 wounded in attacks By: kingrahulkhan30      8.00pm: Spokesperson to the Afghan Ministry of Interior Affairs tweeted that the third terrorist in the kabul attack has been shot dead by the police.
Mustafa Kazemi, a journalist reporting from the blast area in Kabul has tweeted the photo of the building where the Taliban insurgents nested and were firing at different locations. Here it is.
6....  about 5 hours ago     6 Taliban killed in US Embassy attack By: safdarjaved      The nineteen-hour long siege of Afghan Taliban around the US embassy and NATO headquarters in Kabul was finally brought to an end Wednesday morning.Afghan officials announced on Wednesday that all six Taliban fighters, holed up in a multi-storey building, have been killed.An ISAF spokesman said eleven personswere killed and nineteen others wounded ...  about 6 hours ago     Taliban attacked the headquarters of NATO and the U.S. Embassy in ... By: kingston23      Eight militants were killed after different points of attack in the Afghan capital. Explosions and gunfire left seven dead. A
command of eight Taliban put in check Kabul yesterday with an attack on
several points of the Afghan capital, as the U.S. Embassy and the
headquarters of the Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which left
seven ...  about 7 hours ago     Continue fighting between Taliban and Afghan forces in central Kabul By: kingston23      During the night, Afghan troops backed by helicopter gunships continued to exchange gunfire in the capital, Kabul, with the last of a group of Taliban militants launched a series of attacks Tuesday.According to reports, at least one attacker used hand grenades and rockets to fight security forces.Earlier, militants and other suicide vests armed ...  about 8 hours ago     Twelve hours of street battles in Kabul By: karasiwo      Twelve hours after its inception, continues the battle between the street in Kabul Afghan security forces and Taliban militants, according to the BBC office in the capital of Afghanistan.Some of the attackers are being shot from atop a building, according to our correspondents.The attack began when suicide bombers blew themselves up in police ...  about 8 hours ago     U.S. embassy in Afghanistan attack  By: levsang      
Security forces in Afhhanistan are dealing with a series of attacks on U.S. embassies, NATO headquarters and police stations in the capital Kabul today. The attacks today seems to be a complicated campaign coordinating, BBC said.Some suicide bombers have targeted the embassy area while the others attack in the west of the city. 6 ...  about 9 hours ago     A Taliban commander attacks the U.S. Embassy and NATO headquarters in ... By: Vicky247      In a series of coordinated attacks, the Taliban have attacked with rifles and explosives, the U.S. Embassy, ​​the headquarters of NATO and Afghan police several buildings here in Kabul. It is the third major attack sufferer since June, the capital of Afghanistan, which has become a prime target for the insurgency, just at the beginning of ...  about 13 hours ago     Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo      September 13, 2011--
The U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, was the most recent target today of assaults on international embassies. The Taliban has claimed responsibility for the insurgents who coordinated the attacks with grenades and assault rifles at the embassy, NATO headquarters and other sites in Afghanistan's capital, as suicide bombers ...  about 15 hours ago     Afghan gunfight: Kabul police battle insurgents By: aniskhan26      Afghan and international security forces have been battling a multi-pronged attack by insurgents targeting the US embassy, Nato headquarters and police buildings in Kabul.
Police are still exchanging fire with at least one gunman holed up in an unfinished high-rise building overlooking the diplomatic quarter.
Six people have been killed and 16 ...  about 15 hours ago     Taliban executes attacks in Kabul and targeting embassies By: karasiwo      Taliban fighters launched a suicide attack in Afghan capital multiple on Tuesday, firing rockets at the U.S. embassy and three other countries and sending suicide bombers to targets in the west of the city and near the airport.At least two civilians and two policemen were killed and 22 people were injured in the attacks. More than a dozen ...  about 16 hours ago     Afghanistan: the continuing attacks in Kabul By: egyjan25       the Afghan capital Kabul saw  in the evening,  bombs and firearms began this morning.Security forces exchanged fire with two militants holed up in a building overlooking the diplomatic quarter in the city.Heaing  a series of explosions in the area believed that the gunmen were holed up in one of the buildings.Taliban claimed ...  about 16 hours ago     US Embassy, NATO and government buildings attacked in Kabul by ... By: Samantha86      
The US Embassy, NATO and government buildings were attacked in central Kabul by the Taliban today. Two civilians and four afghan police officers have been killed in the attack. The Afghan Taliban have claimed responsibility for the attacks.
No staff member has been reported wounded, according to an embassy spokesman. However, Kabul police ...  about 17 hours ago     TALIBAN ATTACK THE U.S. EMBASSY AND NATO IN KABUL By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ      It was confirmed that there have been several explosions and gun battles.
A series of explosions and gunfire rocked the center of Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, this morning.
After
several hours you could still hear gunfire and the staff of the U.S.
Embassy in Kabul, which was one of the two objects of attacks by the
Taliban, were holed up....  about 17 hours ago     At least three killed in Taliban attack in Kabul By: kamboh      
n the Afghan capital Kabul, the Taliban a major attack on Afghan and international agencies have started.Target were among other things, the headquarters of the NATO-led ISAF forces and the area around the U.S. embassy. According to the Afghan Interior Ministry at least two attackers and one policeman were killed.
Were next to a series of ...  about 17 hours ago     U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan with Taliban attack  By: lethibichlan      Taliban fired a gun into the target U.S. embassy, ​​several other embassies and headquarters of Force International Security Assistance (ISAF) in Afghanistan's capital Kabul in the afternoon on 13-9. Three other suicide bombers have attacked targets to the west of the capital, in areas near airports. At least two civilians and two ...  about 19 hours ago     Blasts, gunfire near US Embassy in Kabul By: kingrahulkhan30      Kabul: Several explosions and
gunfire rocked Kabul's embassy district on Tuesday afternoon. The blasts
and firing took place near the US Embassy in Kabul. Officials say the
attackers fired several rockets toward the US Embassy in Kabul.
According to US and Afghan officials, the terrorists are firing
on the US Embassy from a building ...  about 21 hours ago     Taliban launch intense attack in heart of Kabul By: afzal_mehmood      Kabul, Afghanistan (CNN) -- Afghan and coalition forces
battled Taliban militants who launched a brazen assault against
high-profile coalition targets in central Kabul Tuesday.
Taliban
spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid told CNN that they targeted "the U.S.
Embassy, governmental organizations and other foreign organizations."
"Our insurgents ...  about 22 hours ago     Suicide bombers and gunmen seize Kabul By: naseemtanoli      
"Today at 13.00 (08.30 GMT) at Kabul's Abdul Haq roundabout a massive suicide attack on local and foreign intelligence facilities is ongoing," said a spokesman for the Islamist group of Tuesday's attack.
It appears to be a complex operation with a number of suicide bombers involved, says the BBC's Quentin Sommerville in the Afghan capital.
A ...  1 day ago     (Live Coverage) Rocket attack on US Embassy in Kabul By: safdarjaved      There are reports of rocket attack and firing on US Embassy and NATO headquarters in Afghan capital Kabul.
Taliban has claimed the responsibility for the attack.
There are no reports about the casualties and damage so far.
More details are coming in.
According to reports, four persons badly injured who have been shifted to the nearby hospitals.  1 day ago     Two dead and hundreds injured in the attack on a Nato base By: lalag      A suicide bomber detonated a truck bomb Saturday at the entrance of a small NATO base in central Afghanistan, killing two Afghan civilians and killing more than 100 injured, including 77 coalition soldiers on the eve of 10th anniversary of the attacks of Sept. 11.The Taliban, engaged in an insurgency increasingly lethal against the Kabul ...  2 days ago      12 >           Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest    Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) On 14th September at ......  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 14 hours ago
  Live Sports Share Click Here for Live Sports Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) On 14th September at 2011 Hey Rugby And Rugby World Cup Lover Fan, Welcome to Watch Samoa vs Namibia Live Stream Online PC TV. ...   Namibia vs Samoa?? Namibia vs Samoa Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) Now | OnlineLiveSports.....  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 14 hours ago
  Live Sports Share Click Here for Live Sports Namibia vs Samoa?? Namibia vs Samoa Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) Now Hey Rugby And Rugby World Cup Lover Fan, Welcome to Watch Namibia vs Samoa Live Stream Online PC TV. Namibia vs Samoa live ...   Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) ?? | OnlineLiveSports......  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 14 hours ago
  Live Sports Share Click Here for Live Sports Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) ?? Hey Rugby And Rugby World Cup Lover Fan, Welcome to Watch Samoa vs Namibia Live Stream Online PC TV. Samoa vs Namibia live ...   Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) ?? | OnlineLiveSports......  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 14 hours ago
  Live Sports Share Click Here for Live Sports Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) ?? Hey Rugby And Rugby World Cup Lover Fan, Welcome to Watch Samoa vs Namibia Live Stream Online PC TV. Samoa vs Namibia live ...   Namibia vs Samoa?? Namibia vs Samoa Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) Now | OnlineLiveSports.....  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 14 hours ago
  Live Sports Share Click Here for Live Sports Namibia vs Samoa?? Namibia vs Samoa Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) Now Hey Rugby And Rugby World Cup Lover Fan, Welcome to Watch Namibia vs Samoa Live Stream Online PC TV. Namibia vs Samoa live ...   Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) On 14th September at ......  Submitted By: ashraful
| about 14 hours ago
  Live Sports Share Click Here for Live Sports Samoa vs Namibia?? Samoa vs Namibia Live Streaming Rugby World Cup IRB (RWC) On 14th September at 2011 Hey Rugby And Rugby World Cup Lover Fan, Welcome to Watch Samoa vs Namibia Live Stream Online PC TV. ...      12 >    More Related Stories     Images    >         Kabul attack    Kabul attack Image Source: allvoices Afghan policemen arrive at the site of a rocket-propelled attack in Kabul ...        A suicide bomber has struck ...    A suicide bomber has struck ... Image Source: www.afp.com A suicide bomber has struck Kabul        Suicide bombers on Friday ...    Suicide bombers on Friday ... Image Source: www.afp.com Suicide bombers on Friday targeted guest houses in Kabul, killing 16 people ...        Foreign troops arrive at the ...    Foreign troops arrive at the ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Foreign troops arrive at the site of a suicide attack in Kabul        Members of the Afghan national ...    Members of the Afghan national ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Members of the Afghan national army arrive at the site of a suicide attack ...        Afghan National Army soldiers ...    Afghan National Army soldiers ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Afghan National Army soldiers leave the Intercontinental hotel area after a ...      More Related Images    More From Kabul          U.S. EMBASSY & NATO HEADQUARTERS ATTACKED BY MILITANTS        Afghan forces have killed Kabul insurgents        Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?         U.S. embassy in Afghanistan attack           Attack over Kabul by Taliban Insurgents Finally Ended        Taliban siege of Kabul ends with 14 dead        Fighting in Kabul ended after 19 hours        Taliban attacked on American embassy and NATO headquarter          Fighting goes on near Kabul US embassy        Taliban Attacks in Kabul Also Target Public Opinion        Kabul Live: 6 people killed and 15 wounded in attacks        September prgyarh completed ten years of U.S. attacks          Twelve hours of street battles in Kabul                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10324679          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 61       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 1       Images: 68       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10324679), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10324679 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10324679 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10324679-afghanistan-taliban-launch-several-attacks-in-the-capital-kabul.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        