Waco VA hospital gets new mission | Wacotrib.com




















































 



Wednesday, September 14, 2011
Classifieds											   WacoTrib Cars											   Real Estate											   Employment											   Merchandise											   Subscribe 










Home

News

9/11 — 10 Years
Weather
Briefly
Business
Data Source
Farm & Ranch
Lottery
Neighbor Plus
Police and Crime
Religion / church
take a break
new: Voices of Valor
Waco history
Waco Today
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco
Texas news from AP
National news from AP
Archives


Opinion

Today's Opinion Page
Letters to the Editor
   Send us a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Board of Contributors
Bill Whitaker
Donnis Baggett
Sandra Sanchez
Clifton Robinson
Gordon Robinson


Obits

Waco obituaries


Sports

football 2011
Athlon Sports
Baylor
   Bear Blog
High School Football
   Scoreboard
   Blog
   photos: slide shows
   Podcasts
   Staff picks
   StatsPlus
   team pages
   Twitter
Daily results
Outdoors
Youth SportsPlus
Super Centex
College sports
Pro sports


Photos

Photo Slide Shows
high school football
Meet the Cheerleaders
Meet the Drum Majors
July 4th events
Graduations 2011
Prom Photos 2011
HOT Fair & Rodeo
Send us your photos
Order Reprints


Video

Living

Take a break
   Comics
   Horoscopes
   Puzzles
   Parade magazine
AccessWaco.com
   Events guide
   Movies
   Food / Restaurants
Coupon Tips
Faith Directory
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Special Sections
   A Greater Waco 2011
Waco Today
Weddings, etc.


Blogs

Bear Blog
Curmudgeon
Entertainment in Waco
High School Sports
IMO — Your Opinions
new: Joe Science
Mike's Marketplace
Music Notes
Order Up!
Waco Politics
Wendy Does Waco
  Link: Haiti blog


Business

Waco Business
Data Source
Waco Economic Index
Waco Business Blog
Legal Notices
Lottery
A Greater Waco 2011


Advertise

Post Classified Ad
Buy Online Ad
Buy Print Ad
Contact Us
E-tearsheet signup
E-Invoices


Customer Service

Make A Payment
Subscribe
Edit User Information
Subscriber Services
OnlinePlus: FAQ
NIE
Help & FAQ
Contact Us
Archives
Staff Directory
Reach The Web Staff
Submit News Items
Send us your Photos
Be our fan on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter













Home:    » 
							Waco News 







site

web search
			  			
			





  
  
 Facebook
 Twitter
 RSS








Please enable JavaScript to view this site



Waco VA hospital gets new mission
By REGINA DENNIS Tribune-Herald  staff writer
Sunday September 11, 2011

  









   Email
   Print
  




		 
	

		 
	

The past decade’s war on terrorism following the attacks of 9/11 shaped a fresh vision for the Waco VA Medical Center at a time when it needed a new direction. Thousands of Central Texas troops were deployed from Fort Hood to Afghanistan and later to Iraq. As veterans began coming home and preparing to leave the military, many of them were struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder or other physical and mental effects of multiple war deployments.
The Department of Veterans Affairs pondered how to address the particular needs of this group of veterans from a new kind of fight.
Waco civic and political leaders, meanwhile, searched for new relevance for the old hospital, which was still a significant contributor to the area’s economy. The Waco campus at 4800 Memorial Drive was marked for closure by the VA in 2003.
Efforts to address the veterans’ plight and the community’s dilemma culminated in establishment here of the Center of Excellence for Research on Returning War Veterans through congressional legislation passed in 2005. The research hub at the Waco VA facility studies the psychological war trauma experienced by post-Sept. 11 troops  to develop new treatment and care practices.


Duane A. Laverty / Waco Tribune-Herald
Everlyn Trate (left), a transition patient advocate with the Waco VA Medical Center, talks with patient and Iraq war veteran Patrick Sullivan, 27, of Waco. 


“They saw in a proactive way that we weren’t entirely sure what was going to happen with the conflict, in terms of consequences for veterans,” said Dr. Suzy Gulliver, who heads the Center of Excellence. “That was an unexpected consequence of this series of wars we’ve been in. The scientific benefit is a positive side effect of a really tough thing that’s costing a lot of people.”
Two other similar centers were established — one in San Diego that also studies wartime stress and mental health, and one in Canandaigua, N.Y., that focuses on suicide prevention for veterans of all eras.
30,000 registered
One aftermath of the 9/11 attacks on the United States is a  demand for veteran services. More than 30,000 Afghanistan and Iraq war veterans are now registered to access health care services at the Waco VA hospital, including 7,800 who have received some care or treatment to date.
The National Institute for Mental Health estimates that 13 percent of all veterans have post-traumatic stress disorder, while a 2009 study published in the Journal of Rehabilitation Research and Development said about 20 percent of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans experience some form of traumatic brain injury in combat.
“We’ve implemented a bunch of things in VA nationwide that I think have made a meaningful and measurable difference,” Gulliver said. “The interaction of research and clinical care has really brought an improvement for veterans and their families.”
The Waco VA center has four cores, or practice areas: neuroimaging and genetics; assessment; treatment; and education. Gulliver said about 700 veterans have participated in the various research and treatment programs under way at the center.
The assessment core is compiling and analyzing the results of surveys, psychological evaluations and assessments of about 210 veterans who were part of a two-year research study. The treatment core is in the middle of two different trial programs to simultaneously treat veterans who suffer from PTSD and substance abuse.
Affected areas
In the neuroscience and imaging core, brain scans have been completed on 150 veterans using a mobile MRI machine. The scans are being studied to pinpoint the areas of the brain that are most affected by traumatic injury and to develop effective medicines.
The center’s education core focuses on training health professionals on the best practices for serving veteran mental health patients.
Gulliver said the center recently hired Dr. Deborah Little from the University of Illinois-Chicago, a leader in traumatic brain injury and neuroscience research, to lead a new project at the center.
Little’s study will look at the impact of aging in people with multiple small brain injuries.
“I think the increased awareness on the role of small but repeated brain injuries on the lifetime adjustment of veterans is an important move in the right direction, to put more pieces to the puzzle,” Gulliver said.
In addition to the research center, the Waco facility has implemented some nationwide VA initiatives focused on post-Sept. 11 veterans.


Duane A. Laverty / Waco Tribune-Herald
Renovation work inside the Waco VA Center for Excellence is still underway.


Waco VA staff participates in joint post-deployment exams with staff from the Department of Defense at Fort Hood. About 2,400 veterans have been seen in the program since it started in February 2010.
Previously, a veteran had to complete a physical for the defense department to determine if he or she can continue active duty, then have a second exam to enroll in the VA health care system and predetermine eligibility for disability benefits.
“It’s a more coordinated approach, and it’s faster,” said Dr. Olawale Fashina, associate chief of staff for  ambulatory care for the Central Texas VA health system. “If the services are all at one site, the soldier doesn’t have to travel from Fort Hood, or after they have been discharged from whatever site he or she moves to.”
The VA also has created positions called transition patient advocates to help Afghanistan and Iraq veterans more smoothly resume civilian life. There are three advocates at the Olin E. Teague Veterans Medical Center in Temple, and one at the Waco VA Medical Center.
Army veteran Patrick Sullivan, 27, has been under the guidance of Everlyn Trate, the transition patient advocate at the Waco VA hospital, for about a year.
He joined the military in January 2002, at age 17, inspired by Sept. 11 and encouraged by his maternal grandfather, an Air Force veteran. He served two tours of duty in Iraq.
Although Sullivan was eager to “be a grunt” and serve on the front lines of the war, he said, his deployments left him with physical and mental trauma.
Sullivan suffers from PTSD and is now legally blind after optical nerve damage stemming from a concussion during his first deployment.
Trate is helping Sullivan apply for disability benefits through the VA regional office, a complex process Sullivan said would be harder to navigate on his own.
Trate also is trying to get him into PTSD and blind rehabilitation treatment programs at the hospital.
“She helps out a lot, especially with my memory problems,” Sullivan said. “A lot of times I will forget about an appointment, and she always calls me to say, ‘Make sure you go.’
“Also, with me being legally blind, sometimes I can’t see well enough to drive everywhere and she’ll pick me up if I don’t have a way and make sure I get to appointments.”
Denise Ryals, who heads the transition patient advocates program for the Central Texas Veterans Health Care System, which includes Waco and Temple, said each of the advocates may get 12 walk-ins during a day.
The veterans sometimes want help in applying for benefits or getting counseling, while others may need jobs and housing.
“A lot of these service members are young with young families and they may have come in thinking they were going to make this a career, but after the deployments have chosen to get out of the military on a fast decision, not having many plans in place,” Ryals said.
“So we’re facing a lot of socioeconomic issues trying to get them transitioned with housing, financing and jobs.”
rdennis@wacotrib.com
757-5755




  









   Email
   Print
  




			 
		


				MORE IN WACO NEWS »























 







News, analysis, features, more








 
Blogs





 

Joe Science
High of 107 keeps record streak going

 
 
 
 
Sound & Sight
Billy Joe Shaver to record live CD at Billy Bob's

I miss the Waco Hippodrome

For your amusement: The Build-Your-Own-Bear Conference
 
 
 
 
Mike's Marketplace
Drayton McLane honored by Texas Transportation Institute

Dunkin Donuts plans to add stores in Waco
 
 
 
 
Waco Politics Report
Baylor lawyers up for conference realignment fight

 
 
 
 
The Bear Blog
Art Briles gives Big 12 realignment a shrug

 
 
 
 
Music Notes
Acclaimed young Waco violinist returns to Arts Fest that inspired her

 
 
 
 
High School Sports
Bonus football notes: Tidbits about Central Texas teams
Podcast: This week's football preview

 
 
 
 
Wendy Does Waco
Trying to pick up the pace

 
 
 

Order Up!
More frozen yogurt headed to Waco

 
 
 
 
 
More blogs
Voices around the community.
• All blogs
 
 








 













 
In My Opinion ...




Should Baylor sue if A&M leaves the Big 12?









 
Buy, sell & more





 



View All Top Jobs





View All Top Cars | Place an Ad

  
Waco marketplace

Boocoo auctions: Sell your stuff!
WacoTribCars.com
Jobs: Waco listings
Real estate: Waco listings
Buy & sell merchandise
Classified ads for Waco

 







 





 

 







 





 
RSS feeds
Get all our content delivered straight to your news reader in RSS, RSS2 and Atom formats.
» Get feed for this section:  RSS  RSS2  Atom
 





























site

web search
						  			
						







Back to the Top
















NEWS
Headlines 
Waco news 
Texas news 
U.S. / World 
Weather 
Police/fire 
Waco history 
Archives



BUSINESS
Waco business 
Mike Copeland 
Business blog 

WACO TODAY
Waco Today magazine



SPORTS
Baylor
Bear Blog
 High schools blog
MCC sports
Youth SportsPlus
Outdoors
College sports
Pro sports



OPINION
Opinion
Letters to the editor
Submit a letter
Editorials
Guest columns
Trib columnists
Board of Contributors
  Blogs



ACCESSWACO
Arts & entertainment
Waco events
Movies
Restaurant news
Health
Lawns & Gardens
Parade Magazine
 



PHOTOS
Slide shows
Local events
HS football 2011
Cheerleaders
Order reprints
BLOGS
All blogs



SUBSCRIBE
Order subscription
Customer service
Make a payment
Delivery issues
Going on vacation?
OnlinePlus: FAQ
Contact us
 


ADVERTISE
Advertise in the Trib
Buy print ad
Buy classified ad
Contact us
E-tearsheet signup
E-invoices



MORE
Sitemap
RSS feeds
Submit news item
Staff directory
Facebook
Twitter


 


Home | News | Sports | Business | Entertainment | Lifestyles | Opinion | Events | Classifieds | Blogs | Archive | Customer Service | Multimedia | Advertise | Site Map



					 • Visitor Agreement
					 • Privacy Statement
					 • Contact Us
					 • Advertiser Kit
					 • RSS Feeds

			© 2011 Wacotrib.com
			No commercial reproduction without written consent.
			Electronic reproduction of any kind prohibited without written consent.
		




