Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. Department of Agriculture's huge city tomato...        Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's...        US Poverty rate rising as GOP supports funding cuts for...        Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site         Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?        Egypt expands emergency law use after U.S. and Israeli...          Students To Be Freed After $1 million Bail Paid        Maria Menounos Looking Hot at the Charlie Sheen Roast (...        Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue...        Web Giant Google Pressed By UK Govt To Crack Down On...        MusiCares Honours Sir Paul        2011 Toronto International Film Festival Hosts...          Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...        (Update) Argentina: Bus-Train Crash Kills 9, Injures...        (Pictures) Kim Kardashian in Vera Wang's Drop-Dead Gown...        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of...        Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man?        Pakistan faces Zimbabwe in Final ODI              Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik    Karāchi :  Pakistan
| Sep 13, 2011
 
By mairaa            4 0      
Views: 591
         Rehman Malik Speck at the out side of Cheif minister house, in front of media and press. after attending th e law meeting. Malik, said the action was ‘transparent and without any discrimination’. Rehman Mali Said that he didnot issued any order for releasing target killers in past and he also say that these all report are rumours and i didn't issue any this kind of order. And this interveiw was responding to accusations of Zulfiqar Mirza. In which Zulfiqar Mirza Said That Rehman Malik was releasing target killers, he said that those who were accusing him were against the initiation of operations in the city. Honourable Sir / Honourable friend, Thanks a lot for reading my news. Please, share my news with your friends. Yours sincerely, Maira Qureshi.        1 of 8        
5
     
mairaa is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is a Stringer for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (33.0%) Vietnam (10.3%) Singapore (8.9%) France (6.8%) 32 other countries (35.9%)           READ MORE: target, killer, Ali, interior minister, rehman, said, Minister, kill, killers, Malik   More News From: Karāchi :  Pakistan      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 4            Reply  Posted By       RositaRose
|
about 6 hours
ago
  
its a great reporting, thanksrated up!
    
​        Reply  Reply By       mairaa
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
thank you so much for like my report
    
​        Reply  Posted By       nazish7
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Dear Maria I think its releasing target killers not realising .Pl check.Thanks for up date.
    
​        Reply  Reply By       mairaa
|
about 2 hours
ago
  
thank you for correction
    
​
               Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Hang me if spared single target killer: Malik By: Ammaduddin       
Karachi:Interior Minister Rehman Malik on Monday also admitted targeted killers and criminals arrested in Karachi had links with political parties.Talking to the media outside the Parliament House, Malik said that investigations were underway to determine if the arrested culprits acted independently or took support or directions from the ...  1 day ago     Malik denies releasing target killers By: SANA_NEWS      KARACHI: Interior Minister Rehman Malik Monday said that he did not
issue orders for the release of any target killers.
Malik who was speaking to the media outside the Chief Minister House
said the action was “transparent and without any discrimination”.Malik
was responding to accusations of Zulfiqar Mirza who had said that ...  1 day ago     Zulfiqar Mirza's Allegations and Zulfiqar Mirza's Allegations and MQM By: aalees      On August 29, 2011, during a two hours media briefing, former Senior
Pakistan People's Party leader Dr Zulfiqar Mirza had levelled serious
allegations against MQM, mainly Altaf Hussain and Interior Minister
Rehman Malik.
The main allegations are like as:
Altaf Hussain wanted to disintegrate Pakistan on US wishes;
Altaf Hussain wrote a ...  3 days ago     Peace restored in rural Balochistan, claims Malik By: SyedBakhtawar      
QUETTA: Federal Interior Minister Rehman Malik on Saturday claimed that peace had been established in Balochistan province’s rural areas and that “terrorists” were now headed towards Quetta, DawnNews reported.
Speaking to media representatives here, Mr Malik said terrorists were also targeting women and children, however, ...  4 days ago     Zulfiqar Mirza says, Malik wants to kill me  By: zeeshansali      
Former senior Sindh minister Zulfiqar Mirza says Rehman Malik wants to kill him and he has informed President and Prime Minister Pakistan.
He was talking at a private TV Channel on Thursday night.
Meanwhile, Malik said that he was a patriot and never ordered to release any terrorist, adding that at least 42 target killers and activists of ...  5 days ago     Targeted Operation in Karachi will continue.Rehman Malik By: muhammadyar      Karachi:Interior Minister Rehman Malik chaired a meeting in Karachi on Wednesday to review law and order situation in the city. The meeting reviewed in detail the indiscriminate action taken against the terrorists‚ target killers and extortionists by the Police and Ranges. It was decided that the targeted operation in Karachi will ...  6 days ago     Altaf is a joker and showing action from London: Mirza says By: safdarjaved      Responding  the MQM leader Mustafa Kamal's press conference, he repeated the same words which he listened from Altaf Hussain. He also said that MQM’s Chief had also offered him of doing black business in Karachi because he was confident that he will accept his offer.
He was talking TV channel on Tuesday night, he again alleged that MQM&...  7 days ago     Rehman Malik sabotaging efforts to restore peace in Balochistan' By: FahadASami      Speaking to the media in Quetta, Raisani said that the interior
minister resorted to violence for restoring peace in Quetta and at the
same time talked about holding dialogue with militants when it came to
Karachi.
He urged the judiciary to take action against those who Dr Zulfiqar Mirza had accused of conspiring to destabalise Pakistan. ...  8 days ago     Karachi violence: 3 target killers arrested By: Shehry      
KARACHI: Police and Rangers arrested three more target killers in multiple raids across affected areas, reported Express 24/7 on Sunday.
According to police officials, suspected target killers were arrested from Lines Area, New Karachi and Lyari Bakra Peeri area.
Earlier in the day the police had arrested a suspected target ...  9 days ago     14000-acre state land criminally grasped in Karachi: Says Rehman ... By: ursnafees      
Interior Minister Rehman Malik has revealed that 14, 000
acre of state land is under unlawful occupation.
 
While spoking to journalists, Malik said a strategy has been
put in place to commence action against these land grabbers.
 
Moreover he said that “If political flags were seen in any
other, the concerned SHO ...  9 days ago     Builders demands for action against land grabbers in Karachi By: safdarjaved      
Builders in Karachi have demanded the government to carry out the action against the land grabbers like as being done against target killers in Karachi.
During a meeting with Interior Minister Rehman Malik, the builders informed that the incidents of kidnapping for ransom are increasing day by day and they helpless against them.
They ...  10 days ago     Mirza ‘deeply disappointed’ with President Zardari  By: new2012      
Former Sindh senior minister says he has provided evidence against the MQM to ISI Director General Ahmed Shuja Pasha
Former Sindh senior minister Zulfiqar Mirza on Saturday said he was deeply disappointed with President Asif Ali Zardari, but whatever he had alleged against the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) and Rehman Malik were not a ...  10 days ago     Arresting target killers: Malik warned me to stop or army will topple ... By: FahadASami      At a massive public gathering in Lyari on Friday, the former home
minister claimed he had apprehended target killers from ‘sector offices’
with heavy arms and ammunition but had to release them on Rehman
Malik’s orders.
In a fiery speech at the end of a several-hour-long rally across the
city, Mirza alleged that Malik ...  10 days ago     President has released Rs5 billion for Karachi peace By: aalees      
President
Asif Ali Zardari has released Rs5 billion as part of his government’s continuing
efforts to bring back peace in Karachi, said Interior Minister Rehman Malik on
Saturday.
Malik deprived of Zulfiqar Mirza’s allegations that he had ordered release of
target killers. 
Interacting with journalists after holding a ...  10 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Wassan, Malik, Mazhar hit back at Mirza ...  
Pak Tribune
 In a sign of the widening gulf between the PPP and Dr Zulfiqar Mirza, three PPP leaders on Monday hit back at Mirza, accusing him of playing into the hands of unseen forces and harbouring his exaggerated sense of importance following the temporary...    Mirza's allegations, Karachi dominate NA session ...  
Pak Tribune
 The allegations levelled by former Sindh home minister Dr Zulfiqar Mirza against the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) and the Karachi unrest dominated the national assembly session on Monday. Amidst the walkout of journalists from the press gallery...    Malik Says:Karachi Operation Continues without Discrimination  
pakistantimes
 Minister for Interior Rehman Malik on Tuesday said law and order situation in Karachi was improving and no one would be allowed to disrupt peace in the trade hub of Pakistan. He said operation in Karachi was being conducted without any discrimination,...    World Briefing | ASIA: Kashmir: Top Militant Is Killed  
International Herald Tribune
 The authorities in Indian-administered Kashmir said they killed a top officer of Lashkar-e-Taiba , a Pakistan-based militant group that was responsible for the 2008 attacks in Mumbai, in a gun battle on Tuesday. The officer, Azhar Malik, was shot...       Images    >         malik    malik Image Source: allvoices 5        real     real  Image Source: allvoices 1        pic    pic Image Source: allvoices 2        photo    photo Image Source: allvoices 3        rehman    rehman Image Source: allvoices 4        U.S. Senator Kerry stands with ...    U.S. Senator Kerry stands with ... Image Source: www.reuters.com U.S. Senator Kerry stands with Pakistan's Interior Minister Rehman Malik in ...      More Related Images    More From Karāchi          Cricket : Proud for Pakistan : Aleem Dar again wins the "ICC Umpire of the Year" award        After the first fifteen of the cricket World Cup is our nzrynduhzar, Andy Flower         Sher Khan, former World Champion John started getting better the nature of        Photo : Heavy rain in Karachi caused a lot problems for the public          Cloudburst cripples Karachi        Bella Font million Brown kept his daughter's name        Very soon I will tie the nuptial knot, bpasabasu        Army relief operation continues in Sindh          Search operation in Karachi, donzen arrested        Shahid Kapoor's film 'season' of the Indian Air Force objecting to a scene        Search operation in Karachi, donzen arrested: Rangers        Bollywood actors should not be friends, was Mirza          Karachi situation to improve after SC verdict, says CJ                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10325966          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     Cricket Live Score: PAK vs ZIM 3rd ODI series and highlights By: richwebnews
| about 2 hours ago
      Afghanistan: Taliban launch several attacks in the capital Kabul By: northsunm32
| about 20 hours ago
      Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik By: mairaa
| about 18 hours ago
      Update On Woman Missing In Aruba: Casey Anthony's Lawyer Now On ... By: susievee
| about 10 hours ago
      Embassies Under Siege Worldwide: Can Diplomacy Survive?  By: DavaCastillo
| about 15 hours ago
      Target's High Class Clothing Line Crashes Web Site  By: StephEaly
| about 9 hours ago
       101 year-old Detroit woman evicted from home after foreclosure By: DetroitReports
| about 12 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Why steal the glasses of an 83-year old man? By: prabirghose
| about 10 hours ago
      42nd Anniversary of the Manson Murders By: DetroitReports
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Aung San Suu Kyi in a fight about the movie premiere; By: HumTum
| 1 day ago
      PHOTOS: Miss Universe 2011 (Leila Lopes) By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
      Libya To Be "Moderate Islamic" State By: khattar
| 1 day ago
      Donna Karan Spring 2012 at NY Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week By: AmberCornelio
| about 18 hours ago
      Betsey Johnson Spring 2012 at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week NYC By: AmberCornelio
| about 24 hours ago
      Rio Ferdinand out of Benfica clash, he may be saved for Sunday's match ... By: nthabeleng
| about 19 hours ago
      Turkey F-16s can now hit Israel targets By: TajdarHaider
| about 20 hours ago
      Joint Chief of Staff Committee's meeting held in Rawalpindi By: safdarjaved
| about 21 hours ago
      Latest Update : Kabul Attacks - 9 Killed 23 Hurt By: Ruby1204
| about 17 hours ago
      Should Christian Dior take John Galliano back? By: AmberCornelio
| about 20 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 4       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 5       Images: 8       Comments: 4    4       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10325966), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10325966 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10325966 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Releasing of Target Killer Has Been Cancel By Rehamn Malik” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10325966-through-rehman-malik-realising-on-target-killer-has-been-cancel.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        