Progress in fighting Texas wildfire - Latest News Inn








Home
Contact Us
DMCA Detail
Privacy Policy
Sections
 Business

Health

Media

Press Releases

Science

Sports

Technology

US

Weather

World News


 


RSS Feed








 
 







Progress in fighting Texas wildfire
Media | Latest News |	September 9, 2011 at  6:15 am     









Bastrop, Texas
Progress in fighting Texas wildfire
Residents left homeless by a major forest fire in central Texas have turned their attention Friday to what they need to advance, with some expressing frustration over a perceived federal response, even though the first signs of recovery occurred in the neighborhood reopened.
Firefighters focus on hot spots and extinguish the flames had isolated the remaining of the fire that burned for nearly a week in and around the town of Bastia, the burning of nearly 1,400 houses and sweeping of approximately 45 square miles of rain starved landscape.
“We believe that progress toward the front (fire) was arrested,” Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst said the evacuated residents gathered at the fire command center.
Nevertheless, thousands of evacuees unable to return to their homes for the sixth day because the trees continued to burn underground power lines hung loose poles burned and more than 800 firefighters worked to extract the rest of the fire 25 miles east of Austin.
“It’s just very frustrating,” says Dee Redenius, 40, who came to the fire command center for the answers. “You want to know if your house is there or if it is not. … They let you”
Texas is in the middle of its worst wildfire outbreak in the history of the state. A mixture of warm temperatures, strong winds and a historic drought has led to fire-Bastrop area, the largest forest fire near the 190 Forest Service said the state broke this week, killing four people, destroying more than 1,700 homes and forcing thousands to evacuate .
Washington, fire
Residents of the tinder dry forest near the pass Satus Washington said Friday that 64 structures have burned in a large fire in progress.
Hundreds of residents in the southern central part of the state were evacuated because of fire, which burned more than 6 square miles in an area about 10 miles north of the city of Goldendale.
Exactly how many of the structures were 64 houses remained uncertain.
Source: AP
Related NewsCheck out the Harvest Moon this Week9/11: Barack Obama’s speech at closing ceremonySamantha Stosur New US Open championObama declares state of emergency in wildfire-ravaged TexasBastrop Texas Fire Pictures and VideosApple shares fall in value after chief executive SteveNew Mexico Santa Rosa City of LakesHurricane & Storm Tracking Hurricane Tracker MapMachine Gun Kelly Arrested After Inciting Flash Mob videoFighting in Tripoli as Libyan Rebels Advance







Tags: bastrop, bastrop county fire, bastrop fires, bastrop texas fire, steiner ranch fire



Tweet This
Share on Facebook
Digg This
Save to delicious
Stumble it
RSS Feed

 







Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
 

 
 


Subscribe to RSS
Subscribe to RSS or enter you email to receive newsletter for news, articles, and updates about what's new. 





 Recent World News 
Highest poverty levels in the US
Taliban attack on the diplomatic area near Kabul
Improve early detection of ovarian cancer
Check out the Harvest Moon this Week
Harvest Moon Reaches Its Peak
9/11: Barack Obama’s speech at closing ceremony
Samantha Stosur New US Open champion
Samsung Galaxy Note unveiled

Tagsapple
bac
bank of america
Barack Obama
breaking news
cancer
China
Conocophillips
current news
declaration of independence
dow jones
Exxon
Facebook
Google
Independence day
iPad
IPhone
ipod touch
iTunes
Latest News
macbook
Mac OS X
nasa
nasdaq
news of the world
new york stock exchange
nfl
Obama
PCF
Politics News
prostate cancer
Prostate Cancer Foundation
shell
Sony
sport News
stock market
Stock Market Crash
stock market news
stock market today
stock quotes
Tablet PC
Technology News
Video
world news
yankees


Categories 
Business

Health

Media

Press Releases

Science

Sports

Technology

Uncategorized

US

Weather

World News


  

World News Websites

ABC World News
BBC Daily News
CNN Breaking News
Dallas Hot News
Foxs Current News
Google Live News
Recent World News
Sun News
Times News
Today News
Urdu News


 
  
 



Latest News LatestNewsInn.Com is a live and latest news world . It publishes world daily latest news,current breaking news,USA headline news,Daily world breaking News,Technology news,Medical,Sports,the News Inn
Breaking News Daily News of the world, World news today, top news headlines, live breaking news and live latest news.
World latest news, Latest breaking news, late breaking news, top news, The news, Daily news, live news, Breaking news, News of the world, News, recent news
Follow US Twitter
Facebook
Delicious
Digg
FriendFeed

 
 


Copyright © 2011 — 

Latest News, World News,The News of the world, World News headlines, daily, latest, recent and late breaking news. . All Rights Reserved.
 

 










