Roland S. Martin Blog - powered by FeedBurner
&



Roland S. Martin Blog

A podcast powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based podcatchers. Click your choice below:







...with iTunes:

Add to iTunes

...via email:

Get Roland S. Martin Blog delivered by email

...with something else (copy this address):




Get more info on other podcatchers:






 View Feed XML




A podcast is rich media, such as audio or video, distributed via RSS. Feeds like this one provide updates whenever there is new content. FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in popular podcatchers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



9/11 Attacks Led To Half-Trillion-Dollar Homeland Security Spending Binge


Source: Dan Froomkin / The Huffington Post Washington – In July, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security quietly scuttled a multi-billion dollar program to install high-tech radiation detectors at the nation’s ports. A top priority of the Bush administration, the advanced spectroscopic portal (ASP) devices that the Raytheon Company was being paid to build weren’t just way behind schedule and enormously over budget — they didn’t actually appear to work. The failed project cost taxpayers well over $230 million. DHS [...]
 






Herman Cain Sings God Bless America In 9-11 Tribute (VIDEO)


Republican presidential Herman Cain pays tribute to the fallen of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 as he sings, “God Bless America.”
 






A First Look At The 9/11 Memorial (VIDEO)


Source: Scott Pelley / CBS News This week, CBS Evening News has visited all three sites of the 9/11 attacks. On Friday, it reported from what has been known as Ground Zero. But after a commemoration Sunday, it may be known by its new name — the National September 11th Memorial. Anchor Scott Pelley went down for an early look at the magnificent centerpiece. Two granite pools with waterfalls spread out across the World Trade Center plaza — one for [...]
 






Boehner, Biden Caught On Open Mic Before POTUS Address, What Could They Be Talking About? (VIDEO)


A hot mic caught a conversation between House Speaker John Boehner and Vice President Joe Biden before President Obama’s jobs speech Thursday night. Topic of conversation? Golf.
 






ROLAND S. MARTIN: GOP Race Not Down to Romney and Perry


There are times when even I want to round up as many members of the media as possible, put them all in a Noah’s Ark-type boat and set them off to sail in the hopes of never seeing them again. Watching, listening to and reading all of the media reports about the GOP nomination essentially being a two-man race between former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and Texas Gov. Rick Perry has set my blood to boiling. Here we sit, four [...]
 






Jacqueline Kennedy Audio Reflects Candid Thoughts (VIDEO)


Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy Jacqueline Kennedy’s recorded comments are now in a new book and companion audio CD with a foreword by her only surviving child Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg. NBC’s Brian Williams reports.
 






Hacked NBC Twitter Feed Falsely Reports NYC Attack


Source: Jordana Ossad  / CNN New York – Hackers accessed the Twitter account for NBC News on Friday and posted false messages about a fresh attack on New York’s ground zero. A group calling itself The Script Kiddies claimed responsibility for the hacking, which included three messages about a hijacked plane hitting the World Trade Center site just before 6 p.m. NBC issued a statement Friday confirming the hacking and said it is “working with Twitter to correct the situation [...]
 






ROY S. JOHNSON: Steam Or Sauna: Which Is Best For Muscle Recovery?


Source: Roy Johnson / Fit! Live! Win! I played 18 hole of golf today. Not that that’s particularly special (it was my 46th “ official” round this year), but it was a tournament–and my third round in three days. Do I have to say I was hurtin”?! AndI won, which was cool. It also meant I have to play again at 8:15 am tomorrow morning, Not complaints, but it means I had to figure out a better way for my body to [...]
 






REV. AL SHARPTON: The President Vs. The GOP


Source: Rev. Al Sharpton / The Huffington Post As much as President Obama worked to keep his jobs plan and Congressional address from being juxtaposed with the Republican debate, the last two evenings proved remarkable for anyone concerned about the state of the nation. On one side, you had a president outlining methods of kick starting job creation, while on the other, you had a flock of candidates who received the biggest applause after a comment regarding high numbers of [...]
 






TJMS: Valerie Jarrett Discusses President Obama's Address To Congress And Details The American Jobs Act


Valerie Jarrett joins Roland Martin on the Tom Joyner Morning Show to discuss President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress and the unveiling of the American Jobs Act. WATCH: President Obama Unveils The American Jobs Act
 






Bachmann: President Obama’s Plan Will Fail (VIDEO)


Rep. Michele Bachmann slams Obama’s jobs plan saying he’s “philosophically incapable” of doing what needs to be done. WATCH:
 






Bank Of America Considers Slashing Roughly 40,000 Jobs


Source: Reuters / The Huffington Post Bank of America Corp officials have discussed slashing roughly 40,000 jobs during the first wave of a restructuring, the Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the plans. The number of job cuts are not final and could change. The restructuring aims to reduce the bank’s workforce of 280,000 over a period of years, the Journal said. BofA could not immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside regular U.S. business hours. The [...]
 






Gov. Nikki Haley Wants To Drug Test Applicants For Unemployment Benefits


Source: Hal Millard / Patch.com Gov. Nikki Haley said Thursday she wants to institute drug testing for people who apply for state unemployment benefits. “I so want drug testing,” Haley told a receptive, hometown gathering of Rotarians at a breakfast reception held at the Country Club of Lexington. “It’s something I’ve been wanting since the first day I walked into office.” However, Haley stopped short of proposing any such testing for those who receive welfare benefits, including those on food [...]
 






LIVE VIDEO: President Obama Speaks on the American Jobs Act @ The University of Richmond


JOIN THE LIVE CHAT VISIT WHITEHOUSE.GOV
 






SEC Nears Settlement With Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Over Subprime Loans


Source: Reuters / The Huffington Post Regulators are close to an agreement with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to settle a case over disclosing their exposure to risky subprime loans, The New York Times reported on Thursday. Neither a monetary penalty nor an admission fraud would be included in the settlement under the proposed agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Times reported, citing several people briefed on the case. The SEC abandoned hopes of assessing a fine because [...]
 






U.S. Tracks “Credible” Threat To NYC, D.C. (VIDEO)


Source: AP / CBS News Washington – Just days before the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, U.S. counterterrorism officials were chasing a credible but unconfirmed al Qaeda threat to use a car bomb on bridges or tunnels in New York City or Washington. It was the first “active plot” timed to coincide with the somber commemoration of the terror group’s 9/11 attacks a decade ago that killed nearly 3,000 people. Counterterrorism officials were investigating the threat throughout the [...]
 






Trump Loses Defamation Lawsuit Against Guy Who Said He Was Only Worth $150M


Source: Hillary Reinsberg / Mogulite Most people wouldn’t sue for being told they’re worth a few hundred million dollars. Most people aren’t Donald Trump. In 2005, Tim O’Brien wrote Trump Nation, an investigative book in which, among other things, he argued that Trump wasn’t worth nearly as much as he said he was. While Trump claims he’s worth upwards of $7 billion, O’Brien said the number was actually between $150 million to $250 million. In Trump’s eyes, this was defamation. [...]
 






Full text of President Obama’s Jobs Speech


Mr Speaker, Mr Vice President, members of Congress, and fellow Americans: Tonight we meet at an urgent time for our country. We continue to face an economic crisis that has left millions of our neighbors jobless, and a political crisis that has made things worse. This past week, reporters have been asking “What will this speech mean for the President? What will it mean for Congress? How will it affect their polls, and the next election?” But the millions of [...]
 






Woman Sickened By Fumes At Georgia McDonald’s Dies


Source: AP / CBS News Pooler, Ga. – An 80-year-old Florida woman has died after being sickened by fumes at a McDonald’s restaurant in south Georgia, authorities said. Pooler police Chief Mark Revenew said Anne Felton of Ponte Verda, Fla., died early Thursday. She and her husband were customers at the restaurant. An autopsy will be conducted to determine cause of death. Felton was one of ten taken to the hospital Wednesday after firefighters found two customers unconscious inside a [...]
 






Steve Stoute Sits Down With Jay-Z, Pharrell, And Lady Gaga To Discuss ‘The Tanning Of America’ (VIDEO)


Source: The Huffington Post Steve Stoute, the former music executive, has long played matchmaker between the popular culture and corporate America. He launched Translation Consultation & Brand Imaging in 2004, and linked Justin Timberlake to McDonald’s for the fast food chain’s “I’m Loving It” campaign, helped seal LeBron James’ partnership with State Farm Insurance, Gwen Stefani’s pact with Hewlett-Packard, Lady Gaga’s deal with MAC Comestics, and Jay-Z’s exclusive line with Reebok. TJMS: Steve Stoute On Hip Hop, The Tanning Of [...]
 






President Obama Unveils The American Jobs Act (VIDEO)


Source: Annalyn Censky and Charles Riley / CNN Money President Obama unveiled a stimulus plan Thursday night that he says will boost hiring and provide a jolt to the stalled economy if it becomes law. A mix of $253 billion in tax cuts and $194 billion in new spending, the total bill for the plan is $447 billion. Given staunch Republican opposition to most new spending, the measure has almost no chance of passing the House in its current form. [...]
 






President Barack Obama Is Being Lobbied To Include Gulf Of Mexico Drilling As A Jobs Creator


Source: Dave Levinthal and Anna Palmer / Politico Nearly 20 groups wrote to President Barack Obama asking him to include Gulf of Mexico drilling as a jobs creator in his speech before Congress tonight. CEO signatories include: Jim Adams of Offshore Marine Service Association, Luke Bellsnyder of Texas Association of Manufacturers, Barny Bishop of the Associated Industries of Florida and Don Briggs of the Louisiana Oil & Gas Association. Paul Cicio of the Industrial Energy Consumers of America, David Curtiss [...]
 






FBI Searches Bankrupt Solar Energy Company Touted By President Obama


Source: CNN FBI agents on Thursday were searching the offices of a California solar energy company touted by President Barack Obama that recently halted operations, FBI spokesman Peter Lee confirmed to CNN. Search warrants were executed at the Fremont, California, offices of Solyndra, which recently filed for bankruptcy, in a joint operation involving the FBI and the Department of Energy, Lee said. Solyndra received a $535 million government loan guarantee from the Obama administration under the stimulus bill of 2009, [...]
 






TJMS: Steve Stoute On Hip Hop, The Tanning Of America And The New Economy


Roland Martin talks with Steve Stoute about his new book, The Tanning of America: How Hip-Hop Created a Culture That Rewrote the Rules of the New Economy. Stoute explains how the Hip-Hop culture has played a major role in developing a new economy, driving sales for various products and how Hip-Hop artists have become some of the leading marketers in the country. For more information about The Tanning Of America visit The Tanning of America.
 






Police: Arkansas Meteorologist Found Asleep In Tub Next To Dead Man


Source: CNN Police are investigating the death of an Arkansas man whose naked body was allegedly found next to a sleeping TV weatherman in a hot tub after a night of drinking and drugs. The owner of the home awoke Monday morning to find the body of 24-year-old Dexter Williams at the bottom of an empty tub, his face blue and purple and a chain resembling a dog collar around his neck, according to a Maumelle Police report. Asleep next [...]
 






Teen Births Cost Mississippi $154M, study finds


Source: CBS News Groups pushing for comprehensive sex education classes in Mississippi schools say there’s a good economic reason for what they’re doing. A new analysis shows births to teen or preteen mothers cost the state $154.9 million in 2009. That includes increased costs of foster care, social services and incarceration for young people born years ago to teen moms. It also takes into account lost revenue from people who have lower levels of education and lower-paying jobs because they [...]
 






White House: Obama’s ‘American Jobs Act’ Will Include New Ideas (VIDEO)


Source: CNN Washington - President Barack Obama will include some new proposals in the package of job creation measures he unveils Thursday night in a speech to a joint session of Congress, White House spokesman Jay Carney told CNN. “There will be some new ideas that you haven’t heard from us before that are part of the baskets, part of the areas, in terms of tax relief and infrastructure spending, assistance to communities to help rebuild their schools, assistance to states [...]
 






Appeals Court Favors Obama Health Care Law


Source: David Jackson / USA Today President Obama wins the latest round in the health care legal fight. A federal appeals court tossed out Virginia’s lawsuit against the Obama health care law, ruling that the state’s attorney general lacked legal standing to bring the case. The decision essentially reversed a lower court judge’s ruling that the law violates the Constitution because it forces most Americans to buy some sort of health insurance. The appeals court did not rule on the [...]
 






Ponzi Scheme? Rick Perry Explains Social Security Stance (VIDEO)


At the MSNBC GOP debate, Gov. Rick Perry is asked about comments he made on Social Security in his latest book. WATCH:
 






John Galliano Found Guilty By French Court In Anti-Semitism Case


Source: Ryan Creed,Sheila Marikar / ABC News A French court has found fashion designer John Galliano guilty of anti-Semitic behavior in two complaints. He could have been sentenced to a maximum of six months in jail. Instead, Galliano was fined 6,000 euros ($8,400), though the fines were suspended. The Black Room: John Galliano Gets The Boot For Racist Comments (VIDEO) The former Dior designer was charged in connection with incidents in October, where he was accused of verbally abusing an English language [...]
 






Perry, Romney Spar Over Job Creation, Social Security


Source: CNN Los Angeles – Debate newcomer Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney clashed over their job creation records, health care and Social Security at the Republican presidential debate Wednesday night. “When I came in as governor, we were in a real free-fall,” Romney said. Unemployment was 4.7% when he left office, the former GOP front-runner said. Perry said his opponent had a great record creating jobs in private business, but not so much as a [...]
 






Pennsylvania Orders 100,000 To Evacuate Flood Zone (VIDEO)


Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy Source: MSNBC Due to flooding fears, officials in northeastern Pennsylvania are calling for a mandatory evacuation of communities along the Susquehanna River — an area that was inundated in the historic Agnes flood of 1972. The order affects more than 100,000 residents. Luzerne County Management Agency official Frank Lasiewicki told The Associated Press Thursday the river is projected to crest at nearly 41 feet between 4 p.m. and [...]
 






Dick Cheney: Hillary Clinton Should Run For President In 2012


video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player Source: The Huffington Post Dick Cheney would like to see Hillary Clinton run for president against Barack Obama. “So far she hasn’t said she would, but I think it’s not a bad idea,” the former vice president told ABC News’ Jonathan Karl in an interview Wednesday. “Hillary Clinton is a pretty formidable individual,” Cheney said. “I think she’s probably the most competent person they’ve got in their cabinet. And, frankly, I thought she was gonna [...]
 






2012 Republican Presidential Candidates Debate (VIDEO)


Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy NBC’s Brian Williams and Politico’s John Harris moderate a debate between 2012 GOP presidential candidates live from the Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California.
 






Troy Davis’ Execution Date Set By Georgia Authorities (VIDEO)


Source: Trymaine Lee / Blackvoices / The Huffington Post Years of public appeals, pleas of innocence and international support have yet to prevent what may be Troy Davis’ fate: Prison officials in Georgia have set the date of execution for Davis, one of the highest-profile inmates on the state’s death row. It is the fourth time in as many years that officials have set such a date. This time the date is September 21. Davis, convicted of the 1989 killing [...]
 






Al Gore Criticizes Obama For Abandoning Smog Standards


Souce: The Huffington Post In Al Gore’s most recent post to “Al’s Journal,” the former vice president slams President Obama for his recent retreat on smog standards. Last Friday, under pressure from big industries and GOP lawmakers, Obama asked the EPA to withdraw proposed clean air regulations. According to the Associated Press, “The regulation would have reduced concentrations of ground-level ozone, the main ingredient in smog, a powerful lung irritant that can cause asthma and other lung ailments.” In Gore’s [...]
 






Dick Cheney Tells Republican Presidential Candidates To Watch Their Mouths (VIDEO)


video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player Source: Jonathan Karl / ABC News Los Angeles — Former Vice President Dick Cheney isn’t picking sides in the battle for the 2012 Republican Presidential nomination, but in a remarkably candid interview with ABC News in Los Angeles, he had blunt words about the current field of GOP candidates. Cheney accused Rick Perry of using “over-the-top” rhetoric, chided Michele Bachmann for overpromising on the campaign trail and said that Jon Huntsman’s views on Afghanistan hew [...]
 






Soulja Boy Apologizes To Armed Forces For Anti-Military Rap


Source: Jenée Desmond-Harris /The Root Twenty-one-year-old rapper Soulja Boy recently released a video of a song with lyrics about the military so offensive that they’ve inspired Army personnel and veterans to petition to have his music banned from bases around the country: “F–k the FBI/And f–k all the Army troops/Bitch, be your own man/I’ll be flying through the clouds/With green like I’m Peter Pan,” he raps on a new track titled, “Let’s Be Real,” which went viral on Labor Day. This morning, [...]
 






Rumsfeld: President Obama Has Embraced Bush’s Post Sept. 11 Policies


Source: Eyder Peralta / NPR In a long interview with Fox News’ Greta Van Susteren, yesterday, former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld looks back at Sept. 11. Rumsfeld recounts that day at the Pentagon; he rememebers feeling the building shake and watching the thickening smoke and leaving the building to find the lawn covered in pieces of metal from the airplane. One of the highlights of the interview is what he says about the Bush Doctrine, the set of policies enacted by [...]
 






CBS News: Online Video Game Turns Tea Partiers Into “Zombie” Targets


Source: Lucy Madison / CBS News A new online video game company has come up with a controversial new twist on the traditional zombie-killing gaming concept: The zombies targeted for kill are prominent figures in the Tea Party movement. The game, “Tea Party Zombies Must Die,” features a handful of Tea Party members – including Sarah Palin, Mike Huckabee, Newt Gingrich, and a blood-spattered, bra-clad Michele Bachmann – who the gamer is instructed to kill with either a “melee weapon” (in [...]
 






Andrea Mitchell Announces Breast Cancer On Air


Source: Melissa Bell/ The Washington Post Andrea Mitchell with husband Alan Greenspan, a former Federal Reserve chairman. Andrea Mitchell, NBC’s chief foreign affairs correspondent, announced on air Wednesday that she has breast cancer. The host of “Andrea Mitchell Reports” said that during her annual exam, she had been diagnosed as “one of the one in eight women in this country with breast cancer.” She quickly went on to say that her outlook was very good and that the disease can [...]
 






Allen West Shows Anti-Mosque Film To 9/11 Families


Source: Marin Cogan / Politico Politicians across the country are finding all sorts of ways to mark the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, but Rep. Allen West’s event stands out for its unique twist: He invited family members of 9/11 victims to the Capitol to view a controversial film about construction of the Ground Zero mosque. West, a tea party favorite who has sparred with Muslim and other religious groups for his controversial statements on Islam, told the friendly crowd Wednesday that [...]
 






Attorney General Eric Holder Announces 91 Arrests In $300 Million Medicare Fraud Sting


Souce: CBS News Federal authorities announced Wednesday what they described as the largest bust for Medicare fraud in U.S. history after conducting sweeps in eight cities for offenses totaling $300 million. Attorney General Eric Holder announced the arrests at an afternoon press conference. The arrests were carried out by the Medicare Fraud Strike Force under the Department of Health and Human Services. “At various positions, nurses and physicians violated their professions as well as the public trust,” Holder told reporters, [...]
 






California High School Evacuated After Bomb Threat


Source: CBS News San Clemente, Calif. – Orange County authorities have evacuated thousands of students from a high school after a missing Navy medic left a note claiming he planted explosives there. Sheriff’s spokesman Jim Amormino says that authorities evacuated more than 3,000 students and staff at San Clemente High School Wednesday morning and they are searching all the rooms. TV reports showed students crowding the football field. It’s the first day of school. Amormino says the search was prompted [...]
 






Texas Wildfire Victim Returns To What Was Home (VIDEO)


David Mattingly accompanies a Texas homeowner who returns to find her house burned up by a wildfire. WATCH:
 






Attorneys Fight To Get Former Chicago Mayor Richard Daley On The Stand In Police Torture Trial


Source: The Huffington Post Although attorneys for former Mayor Richard M. Daley said he will not testify this week in a police torture trial, attorneys for the alleged victim are not giving up on their fight to put the former mayor on the stand. A federal judge ruled in August that Daley could be sued as a defendant for his alleged role in what plaintiffs called a “citywide conspiracy” to cover up police torture. Michael Tillman, who served almost 24 [...]
 






Teamsters’ Hoffa Stands By Labor Day Remarks About Tea Party


Source: David Nakamura / The Washington Post Tea party groups called on him to apologize, but Teamsters’ boss Jimmy Hoffa kept to the remarks he made at a Labor Day rally in Detroit on Monday in which he called on workers to “take out” tea party members. Hoffa Declares War On The Tea Party (VIDEO) “We didn’t start this war – the right wing did,” Hoffa said in a statement Tuesday. “My comments on Labor Day in Detroit echo the [...]
 






Arizona Charging To See Prisoners (VIDEO)


Arizona Department of Corrections will begin charging a $25 fee for friends and families of prisoners. VIDEO:
 






Oscar De La Hoya Admits Drag Photos Are Real


Source: CNN Remember those scandalous photos of boxing legend Oscar De La Hoya wearing fishnets and lingerie from 2007? And how he insisted they were fake? Well, the boxer is finally admitting it’s him in those pictures, reports the New York Post. In an interview with “Aqui y Ahora” (Here and Now), a news show on Univision, the “Golden Boy” owns up to the cross-dressing images after all these years, and places the blame on a combination of alcohol and [...]
 






Jon Stewart: Jimmy Hoffa Jr.’s Big Speech Upsets The Tea Party (VIDEO)


The Daily Show – James and the Giant SpeechGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Political Humor & Satire Blog,The Daily Show on Facebook After Jimmy Hoffa Jr. warms up the crowd at a Labor Day rally, the Tea Party and the right suddenly develop an allergic reaction to violent rhetoric.
 






Businesses Post Most Job Openings In 3 Years


Souce: AP / NPR Companies advertised the most job openings in three years, a hopeful sign after the worst month for hiring in nearly a year. The Labor Department said Wednesday that employers posted 3.2 million jobs in July, up from 3.17 million in June. That is the largest number of openings since August 2008. Typically, it takes anywhere from one to three months to fill an opening. More openings don’t guarantee more jobs. The government said last week that [...]
 






Health Industry Gives Millions To Lawmakers Tasked With Cutting Spending


Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy Source: MSNBC Washington — Doctors, drugmakers, hospitals and health insurers have spent millions over the years wooing lawmakers who now are on the powerful congressional panel charged with finding a formula to control deficits and debt, a new analysis finds. Those very same industries would get hit hard if the supercommittee succeeds. The industry campaign contributions, compiled by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics, reinforce doubts that the 12-member [...]
 






Crane Topples At National Cathedral, Damages Buildings


Source: Patricia Sullivan / The Washington Post A crane toppled over at the National Cathedral this morning, damaging the Herb Cottage and the church house, which is the headquarters of the diocese. No injuries have been reported, but emergency crews are just arriving. A spokesman for the cathedral said the cathedral itself was not damaged. The crane was there to repair the roof which was damaged in the August earthquake. To read this article in its entirety visit The Washington Post.
 






Southeastern Conference Accepts Texas A&M With Condition


Source: Thomas O’Toole / USA Today In a statement released Wednesday morning, the SEC stated it unanimously approved A&M’s application but under the condition that the remaining Big 12 schools offer no roadblocks to the Aggies departure. The SEC release said it was assured in a Sept. 2 letter that all Big 12 schools condoned the A&M move. But then on Tuesday, the SEC said it found out one Big 12 school had withdrawn its approval, leaving the SEC to [...]
 






President Obama To Unveil $300 Billion Jobs Plan (VIDEO)


Jessica Yellin reports the plan includes cuts in payroll taxes and increases in unemployment insurance. WATCH:
 






TJMS: April Ryan Discusses What To Expect In POTUS Jobs Speech, Rick Perry's Impact On The 2012 Presidential Race


Roland Martin talks with April Ryan, White House Correspondent for Urban Radio Networks about Congress’ return to Washington, President Obama’s Jobs speech and Rick Perry’s impact on the 2012 presidential race.
 






5 Dead, Including Gunman, At Nevada IHOP


Source: CNN The death toll from a shooting at a Nevada IHOP restaurant has risen to four, officials said early Wednesday morning. A gunman carrying a variant of an AK-47 rifle opened fire on uniformed Nevada National Guard members as they were having breakfast at the Carson City restaurant Tuesday morning. In all, 11 people were shot. Of them, one civilian was killed as were two National Guard members. Another National Guard member, who was taken to a hospital and [...]
 






ROY JOHNSON: Best Time to Train–AM or PM? Now!


Source: Roy Johnson / Fit! Live! Win! If you’re new to this blog, you probably don’t know that I am a morning workout person. Not amorning person, by any stretch. But a morning workout person. My alarm goes off at 5:15am every weekday and after downing a Nutri-Grain bar (always eat something before heading to the gym), I’m at the gym and on a cardio machine usually by 5:45a or so. Done it that way for years. Yes, there were times [...]
 






Eddie Murphy To Host 2012 Oscars


Source:  Sheila Marikar /ABC News The academy in charge of Hollywood’s most major awards show announced today that the stand-up comic Oscar-nominated actor will host the 2012 ceremonies, which are being produced by Brett Ratner and Don Mischer. “Eddie is a comedic genius, one of the greatest and most influential live performers ever,” Ratner said in a statement put out by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.  “With his love of movies, history of crafting unforgettable characters and his [...]
 






50 Cent’s New Energy Drink To Help Bring 50 Billion Meals To Africa (VIDEO)


Source: The Huffington Post Moved to action by a recent trip to famine-torn Africa, 50 cent has launched an energy drink whose profits will help bring 50 billion meals in the region. The rapper has teamed up with Pure Growth Partners to bring Street King, a new energy drink, to the market, PopCrush.com reports. Proceeds from every sale will go toward providing 50 billion meals over the next five years. CORRECTION: This story originally stated that 50 Cent wanted to [...]
 






More Restaurants Are Targeting Customers Who Use Food Stamps


Source: Jonathan Ellis and Megan Luther / USA Today The number of businesses approved to accept food stamps grew by a third from 2005 to 2010, U.S. Department of Agriculture records show, as vendors from convenience and dollar discount stores to gas stations and pharmacies increasingly joined the growing entitlement program. Now, restaurants, which typically have not participated in the program, are lobbying for a piece of the action. Louisville-based Yum! Brands, whose restaurants include Taco Bell, KFC, Long John [...]
 






Groupon Offers Discount On College Tuition


Source: Chicago Tribune National Louis University on Tuesday will offer a Groupon for a graduate-level introduction to teaching course, officials said. With the Groupon, prospective students can save nearly 60 percent on tuition for the single, three-credit course and earn credit toward a graduate degree, said Jocelyn Zivin, the vice president of marketing and communications for the Chicago-based, private university. “There are all kinds of factors in the K-12 world that are really discouraging teachers and people seeking teaching degrees,” [...]
 






Reports: 3 Dead, Six Wounded In Shooting At Nevada Restaurant


Source: MSNBC Carson City, Nevada — Three people were killed and at least six others were wounded, including the gunman, during a shooting Tuesday morning at a restaurant in Carson City, according to the FBI and local police. Carson City Sheriff Kenny Furlong said a gunman armed with an automatic weapon opened fire inside an IHOP restaurant about 9 a.m. on Tuesday. The alleged gunman’s wounds were self-inflicted and he remains alive at a local hospital but was unlikely to [...]
 






TJMS: Businesswoman Sheila Johnson Explains What POTUS Should Say In His Address To Congress About Jobs


Sheila Johnson Newman joins Roland Martin on the Tom Joyner Morning Show to discuss what President Barack Obama should say in his address to Congress on Thursday. Submit your thoughts on Black Unemployment via Roland Martin uReport, upload your video(s) today.
 






Hoffa Declares War On The Tea Party (VIDEO)


James Hoffa rallies a Detroit crowd to support President Obama and “take out” the tea party. WATCH:
 






Family Of Alleged Mississippi Hate Killing Victim Files Suit


Source: Drew Griffin and Scott Bronstein / CNN Jackson, Mississippi - The family of an African-American man who was killed when he was beaten and run over with a truck has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against a group of teens alleged to have been present at the time of the attack. The lawsuit — filed Tuesday in a Mississippi district court — alleges that seven white teenagers “set out on a mission” to find and harass African-Americans. LISTEN: TJMS: [...]
 






Fox News’ Gretchen Carlson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz Argue About Jimmy Hoffa (VIDEO)


Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.com Source: The Huffington Post “Fox and Friends” anchor Gretchen Carlson and Democratic National Committee Debbie Wasserman Schultz had a heated clash on Tuesday morning over comments a union leader made at President Obama’s Labor Day rally. Teamsters president Jimmy Hoffa got a lot of applause in Detroit when he said of the Tea Party, “let’s take these son-of-a-bitches out and give America back to America where we belong.” President Obama was not present for [...]
 






Texas Wildfires Destroy More Than 700 Homes In Two Days (VIDEO)


Source: CNN Bastrop, Texas – Wildfires continued to rage Tuesday in Texas, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of homes near Austin and Houston as firefighters struggled to gain the upper hand against flames, winds and fatigue. “Texas is in a difficult situation right now and our priorities are pretty simple. Number one is to protect life at all costs,” said Nim Kidd, chief of the state Division of Emergency Management. The state’s forest service has responded to 181 fires that [...]
 






Facing Default, Postal Service Turns To Congress (VIDEO)


Source: AP / CBS News Washington – The postmaster general is delivering a message to Congress: Help save the United States Postal Service. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe is among the witnesses scheduled to appear Tuesday afternoon before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to discuss the Postal Service’s mounting debt. The USPS is facing a second straight year of losses of $8 billion or more. A decline in mail because of the Internet (circulation of mail is down [...]
 






Super PAC To Spend $55 Million On Rick Perry (VIDEO)


Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy NBC’s Michael Isikoff reports on a new super PAC which plans to spend $ 55 million on Rick Perry’s presidential campaign.
 






Rollins Steps Down In Bachmann Campaign Shake-Up


Source: CNN Michele Bachmann campaign manager Ed Rollins is stepping into an advisory role and deputy manager David Polyansky is leaving the campaign, Rollins said Monday. Rollins, who’s 68 and had a stroke a year and a half ago, cited health reasons for his decision. “I just don’t have the endurance to go 12 to 14 hours a day, seven days a week anymore,” Rollins told CNN’s Anderson Cooper on Monday. Rollins said he still has great affection for Bachmann [...]
 






Football Hall Of Famer Lee Roy Selmon Dies After Stroke


Source: CNN Lee Roy Selmon, a Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive end who was the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ first-ever draft pick, died Sunday after suffering a stroke two days earlier, the team said. The 56-year-old had been admitted to a Tampa, Florida, hospital after suffering the stroke Friday. Selmon, a two-time national champion and three-time All-American at Oklahoma University, played nine seasons after the expansion Buccaneers made him the first overall pick in the 1976 draft. He was named [...]
 






Postal Service May Default On A $5.5 Billion Trust Fund Payment


Source: Paul Courson / CNN Washington – The U.S. Postal Service does not have the money to meet an obligation to a retiree health care trust fund coming due at the end of the month, but if there’s a default, officials promise no interruption in the mail, the payroll, or payments to suppliers. Commenting in response to a New York Times article Monday suggesting the Postal Service may have to shut down within months, spokeswoman Yvonne Yoerger told CNN there’s [...]
 






RIGHT NOW: President Obama Speaks At A Labor Day Event In Detroit


JOIN THE LIVE CHAT VISIT WHITEHOUSE.GOV
 






Missing 10-Yr-Old Girl In NEW YORK CITY (FOUND)


[UPDATE 8:56 PM ET] New York 10-year-old found the detectives just found the missing girl wandering outside her mother’s apartment building. Name: Rachel Tanibajeva Age: 10 DOB: 3/25/01 Last Seen Wearing: Blue Jeans, flip flops, green button up short-sleeved polo shirt, grey jacket Hair Color: Long Curly Dark Brown Eye Color: Dark Brown Last Seen at the corner of Fulton Street and Throop Avenue at 10:00 a.m. this morning. Anyone with information can email RachelMissing@gmail.com Her father’s name is Shannon [...]
 






Black Unemployment: Highest In 27 Years


Source: CNN Money New York – The August jobs report was dismal for plenty of reasons, but perhaps most striking was the picture it painted of racial inequality in the job market. Black unemployment surged to 16.7% in August, its highest level since 1984, while the unemployment rate for whites fell slightly to 8%, the Labor Department reported. “This month’s numbers continue to bear out that longstanding pattern that minorities have a much more challenging time getting jobs,” said Bill [...]
 






TJMS: Former White House Staffer And Author Lucas Boyce Says You Are Built For Something More


Lucas Boyce, Director of Community Relations, Multicultural Insights, & Government Affairs for the Orlando Magic joins Roland Martin on the Tom Joyner Morning Show. Boyce discusses his new book entitled Living Proof: From Foster Care to the White House and the NBA. Boyce was in charge of African-American outreach, professional sports outreach and political affairs (from Missouri to California) under President George. For more information about Lucas Boyce and to order Living Proof, visit http://lucasdanielboyce.com/.
 






U.S. Regulator Sues Bank Of America, Others Over Losses On Subprime Bonds


Source: Reuters / The Huffington Post Washington / New York – A U.S. regulator sued a number of major banks Friday over losses on more than $41 billion in subprime mortgage bonds, which may hamper a broader government mortgage settlement with banks. The lawsuits by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, came as a surprise to the market and weighed on bank shares. The lawsuits could add billions of dollars to the banks’ potential [...]
 






Obama Cancels Ozone Rules After Lobbying By Business


Source: Mark Drajem / Bloomberg President Barack Obama quashed proposed rules on ozone from the Environmental Protection Agency, agreeing with Republicans and industry to withdraw the costliest regulation being considered by the administration. Obama said he is seeking to reduce regulatory burdens as the economy recovers, and said the EPA would weigh tighter standards on ozone, which causes smog, in two years. “Ultimately, I did not support asking state and local governments to begin implementing a new standard that will [...]
 






African-American Unemployment Rate Climbed In August


Source: Joyce Jones / BET The Labor Department has released the August jobs report and the unemployment figured was unchanged from July’s 9.1 percent. In addition, the economy added only 17,000 new jobs. The African-American jobless rate climbed from 15.9 to 16.7, which only strengthens the argument of Black lawmakers that there is a critical need to specifically address this problem. The unemployment rate for Black males rose a whole percentage point to 18.0 percent and the rate for Black [...]
 






Robert Johnson, Black Leaders Press President Obama On Unemployment


Source: Tim Mak / Politico Black leaders said on Friday that the sharp spike in unemployment among African-Americans revealed in the latest jobs report is nothing short of a “state of emergency” as they ratcheted up the pressure on President Barack Obama to tackle the issue. The Labor Department found black unemployment – already well above the national average of 9.1 percent – jumped to 16.7 percent from 15.9 percent from July to August. It’s the highest level of African-American [...]
 






Virginia City Bans Public Confederate Flag Displays


Source: AP / CBS News Lexington, Va. – Officials in the rural Virginia city where Robert E. Lee and Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson are buried voted late Thursday to prohibit the flying of the Confederate flag on city-owned poles. After a lively 2 1/2-hour public hearing, the Lexington City Council voted 4-1 to allow only U.S., Virginia and city flags to be flown. Personal displays of the Confederate flag are not affected. The Sons of Confederate Veterans, whose members showed up [...]
 






Bus Ride Detours Rapper T.I.’s Early Release From Prison


Source: Alan Duke / CNN T.I., who walked out of a federal prison in Arkansas Wednesday and joyously tweeted “The storm is over & da sun back out,” woke up back in a prison Friday morning. The rapper’s early release from an 11-month prison term lasted just a day, with federal agents taking T.I. back into custody Thursday after prison officials questioned how he traveled from an Arkansas prison to an Atlanta halfway house. T.I., whose real name is Clifford [...]
 






Tropical Storm Lee to Hit New Orleans this Weekend (VIDEO)


video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player Source: Colleen Curry / ABC News A long, dry summer will come to a rainy close along the Gulf Coast this weekend as Tropical Storm Lee is expected to pour as much as 20 inches of rain over the New Orleans area. Tropical Depression 13, which is expected to become Tropical Storm Lee by Saturday, is expected to make landfall along the southern coast of Louisiana around 1 p.m. on Saturday with winds of 60 [...]
 






High Waves Likely Caused Drug Smuggling Boat Crash In Southern California, 500 Pounds Of Marijuana Found


Source: Camille Mann / AP / CBS News Los Angeles – The high waves that are pounding the California coast caused a marijuana smuggling boat to crash onto a Southern California beach. The boat split in two on rocks south of Point Mugu State Park in Malibu. Two state park rangers who were patrolling the area discovered the boat where more than 500 pounds of marijuana was washed ashore with it, said Lindsaey Templeton, a superintendent for the park system [...]
 






Rep. Joe Walsh To Skip Obama Jobs Speech, Calls President ‘Idiotic’


Source: The Huffington Post House Republican Joe Walsh, a Tea Party favorite from Illinois, will not be attending President Barack Obama’s Sept. 8 jobs speech, the Chicago Tribune reports. “I don’t see the point of being a prop for another of the president’s speeches asking for more failed stimulus spending and more subsidies for his pet projects,” he said in a statement issued Thursday. Walsh, a member of the House Small Business Committee, will instead be hosting a small business [...]
 






20 Inches Of Rain? Flood Warnings For US Gulf Coast


Source: MSNBC A slow-moving tropical depression was slogging toward the Gulf coast Friday, packing walloping rains that could drench the region with up to 20 inches. Louisiana’s governor declared a state of emergency Thursday because of the threat of flash flooding. Tropical storm warnings were issued from Mississippi to Texas including New Orleans. The National Hurricane Center said the system will dump 10 to 15 inches of rain over southern areas of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama through Sunday and as [...]
 






ABC News: Investigators Probe White House Role In Massive Energy Loan (VIDEO)


video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player Source: Matthew Mosk and Ronnie Greene / ABC News House investigators said they have uncovered evidence that White House officials became personally involved in an Energy Department review of a hot-button $535 million loan guarantee to the now-failed California solar company Solyndra. The allegation surfaced in a letter House Energy Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) sent to the White House Thursday night, saying he planned to accelerate efforts to understand an investment deal that may [...]
 






August Jobs Report: Hiring Grinds To A Halt


Source: Annalyn Censky / CNN Money New York – Employers added no jobs in August, the Labor Department said Friday and the unemployment rate remained at 9.1%. “We expected a weak report, and what we got was even weaker,” said Patrick O’Keefe, director of economic research at J.H. Cohn. The report was partially helped by 22,000 state workers in Minnesota returning to work after a temporary government shutdown in July, but was also hurt by 45,000 Verizon workers on strike [...]
 






ROLAND S. MARTIN: No One Fears President Obama


The White House loves to trumpet the idea that one of President Barack Obama’s greatest virtues is how he operates above the fray, choosing not to waste time with the political battles in the trenches. “No-Drama Obama” is who we heard about during the 2008 presidential campaign, about how his cool, calm demeanor was his biggest asset. But look at how the GOP forced the president’s hand on extending the Bush tax cuts; how it created political hay out of [...]
 






Waters Urges President Obama To Go After 'Gangsta' Banks (VIDEO)


Source: Justin Sink / The Hill Rep. Maxine Waters(D-Calif.) urged President Obama Tuesday night to use his bully pulpit to demand that “gangsta” banks offer mortgage modifications that would enable people to stay in their homes or face withering taxation. “It’s time for the bully pulpit of the White House to bring the gangstas in, put them around the table and let them know that if they don’t come up with loan modifications and keep people in their homes that [...]
 






Sharpton: Perry’s Vision Is A Bit ‘Blurry’ (VIDEO)


Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy Politics Nation’s Rev. Al Sharpton comments on Rick Perry’s plans for America.
 






Feds Put Hold On South Carolina Voter ID Law


Source: Matt Loeb / National Journal The Justice Department has put the brakes on enactment of a proposed election-law overhaul signed by South Carolina’s Republican Gov. Nikki Haley, saying it wants more evidence that the changes will comply with Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. The department requested additional information from the state’s election commission about the law, which requires o voters to present photo ID at the polls—a sign that the department has reservations about the changes. South [...]
 






President Obama Will Address Congress At 7 P.M. Next Thursday


Source: David Nakamura / The Washington Post President Obama will address a joint session of Congress at 7 p.m. Thursday to lay out his plans to create jobs to help boost the economy. House Speaker John Boehner announced the timing of the speech in an e-mail to reporters. Obama had sought to speak next Wednesday, but Boehner, citing scheduling conflicts on the House’s first day back in session after summer recess, invited Obama a day later instead. The 7 p.m. [...]
 






Study Finds 19% Higher Cancer Rate Among 9/11 Firefighters


Source: Stephanie Smith / CNN New York (CNN) — Firefighters exposed to toxic dust and fumes clogging the air after the World Trade Center towers collapsed 10 years ago are more likely to develop cancer, according to a new study. When compared with firefighters who did not work at Ground Zero, firefighters working the pile were 19% more likely get a cancer diagnosis. According to the research, published Thursday in the Lancet medical journal, the increase occurred during the first [...]
 






FLOTUS Michelle Obama: Power Player (VIDEO)


Essence magazine editor Constance White and writer Krissah Thompson on their cover feature on the First Lady. WATCH:
 






Chris Johnson, Titans Reach 4-Year, $53.5M Deal (VIDEO)


Source: ESPN Holdout running back Chris Johnson and the Tennessee Titans agreed to a four-year extension on Thursday, the team confirmed. A league source told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Schefter that the extension is worth $53 million with $30 million guaranteed. The extension will be tacked on to the two years he had remaining on his previous contract, putting him under the Titans’ control through the 2016 season. Johnson will receive $31 million over the first three years of the [...]
 






‘Queen Esther’: Highlights Of Remarks From Gordy Edwards’ Funeral


Wonder Makes Musical Tribute to Motown’s Edwards: MyFoxDETROIT.com Source: Aaron Foley / MLive.com The funeral for Esther Gordy Edwards drew tributes, stories and testimonies from several speakers who took time to pay respects to the Motown Museum founder and former label executive. Hundreds attended Wednesday’s memorial, which featured performances from Carolyn Crawford, Stevie Wonder and Eddie and Brian Holland, and an impromptu performance from Martha Reeves. To read this article in its entirety visit MLive.com.
 






Rep. Jesse Jackson, Jr.: Rick Perry Sounds Like Confederate Leaders Defending The ‘Slave Amendment’


Source: Amanda Terkel / The Huffington Post Washington – Rep. Jesse Jackson, Jr. (D-Ill.) is calling out Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R) for his full-throated heralding of the 10th Amendment, saying his statements echo rhetoric used by slavery-defending Confederate leaders. The 10th Amendment says the powers not given to the U.S. government by the Constitution are reserved for the states. It has become a Republican favorite, often invoked to argue that federal health care reform is unconstitutional. While announcing his [...]
 






Gadhafi: ‘We Will Be Victorious’ (VIDEO)


Former Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi urges loyalists to fight the enemy in their country. WATCH:
 






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


