Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Financial Analyst: Obama Jobs Plan has uphill battle        BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean        Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died...        Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20...        Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move        Coyotes Take Up Residence in Burned Out House in...          Israeli deputy minister Ayoub Kara suspected of sexual...        U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's...        Rick Perry and Rise of the Planet of the Apes -...        Re-Mastered Stones on the Way        Seniors Text Message Code - Hilarious!!!!        Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days...          Sweden: Doubts grow about success of Sweden's free...        First complete trailer of "The Twilight Saga: Breaking...        Looking for a database of green journalism job...        Some guidance to aid you to decrease fuel figures in...        Honorable Chief Minister Mr. Modi on 3 days Fast.        My 2011 Europa League Group A Predictions              Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move    Asheville :  NC :  USA
| Sep 14, 2011
 
By bob etier             12 0      
Views: 601
         9/14/2011 17:15 UTC Moving? Don’t forget to pack the dog. The first time one reads a story about an individual or family that moves out of their home but leaves pets behind without food or water, one cannot imagine such cruelty. By the hundredth or two hundredth time, one’s faith in humanity has been starved to the point the pets suffered. Authorities don’t always follow up on these cases that are alarmingly common, and those interested in the welfare of animals wonder how people can treat “family members” as disposable, and why it’s more likely that subhumans will be charged with animal cruelty if they starve the animal at home, than if they abandon it. Today, in High Point, NC, a couple will be sentenced for doing just that. Nellie Brock and Wilbert Morrison, Jr., both 55 years old, decided that their relationship wasn’t working out, broke up, and moved out of their house. Nothing unusual about that. But what Brock and Morrison did was leave two dogs behind—one tethered--without food, water, or shelter. The dogs were found lying in the yard, camouflaged by deep grasses, by the people who had gone to mow. The tethered dog somehow survived and continues to be rehabilitated. The other dog was in such terrible condition it was euthanized. Fortune smiles on Brock and Morrison; when they committed their crimes they were merely misdemeanors. Last December, North Carolina made certain types of abuse felonies. Owners moving and abandoning their pets without food or water, and often without shelter, do so with frightening regularity: One of two dogs abandoned when owners moved is found dead in Fort Worth apartment Tethered dog abandoned, starved Vallejo, CA (US) Foreclosures' Other Victims: Abandoned Pets Pit bull abandoned in yard after owners move, Lufkin, TX Update: Abandoned Dogs Rescued Dogs Were Locked Inside A Home For Nearly One Month Man Arrested For Rescuing Dogs From Abandoned Home  Abandoned dogs close to death are rescued from Paterson house In Chambersburg, PA, animal shelter director Jennifer Vanderau , in discussing the huge population at the shelter, said that "the numbers are larger than normal, some of that is due to increased summer mating and dozens of animals being left behind in abandoned houses."' Realestate.aol.com reports, “Real estate agents have become frontline soldiers in a shadow crisis to the foreclosure mess: Pets are being abandoned by their owners in their empty houses. It isn't uncommon for an agent to open the door of a foreclosed property and find a starving dog or cat left behind when the family moved on.” Compounding the problem are owners who are illegally entering abandoned houses (and other buildings) and leaving their animals, or tethering them to a tree or post in the yard of an abandoned house. These cases inspire questions that may never be answered, and most of them are about people, not animals. When an animal is surrendered to animal control services, it may be euthanized. Do some believe that leaving a pet to starve and dehydrate is more humane? Considering that it could take a dog six weeks or more to die from starvation, and each day the dog lives is torture, wouldn’t it be better to take one’s chances with the shelter—or would some people rather starve the dog than pay the shelter's surrender fee? What’s with tethering? Tethering, tying, chaining a dog—whether in a yard or the woods—is a death sentence, severely limiting the dog’s chance of escape and survival. Combine tethering, starving, lack of shelter, and dehydrating a dog and the result is a scenario that even Hannibal Lecter wouldn’t endorse. When people adopt a pet—whatever species—it is a voluntary action and that pet becomes a family member, at least in the eyes of the pet. A dog or cat left to fend for itself in a locked house suffers the emotional as well as physical effects of that abandonment. Every sound elicits the hope that the owners have returned or rescue is at hand; added to the physical torture of starvation is mental torture. This is how people treat members of their families? Many cities throughout the world are struggling with the problem of dogs abandoned on the street; abandoning a dog anywhere is neither recommended nor humane. Do people think it would be more humane to let their animals—many of whom have no survival skills—run free and take care of themselves than to surrender them to shelters or abandon them in deserted houses or tethered in yards? What has happened to make people so insensitive to the suffering of animals (including other humans) that they cannot appreciate the consequences of their actions? For those who love dogs, or cats, or all animals, or any specific species, these acts of abandonment are unconscionable—unthinkable. They are a reminder that empathy and responsibility are underrated and disappearing virtues. (Note: For more on this subject, read "Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get You, Ol’ Blue" and "What Is Wrong with People?") Article Copyright ©2011 by Bob Etier. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from the author is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and link backs to this story may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to the author with appropriate and specific direction to the original content. Violators will be prosecuted to the extent that the law allows.        1 of 4        
Chamberlin, the High Point, NC, dog who was left tethered in an abandoned yard.
     
bob etier is based in Canton, North Carolina, United States of America,
and is an Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (66.5%) Canada (6.0%) Philippines (4.6%) United Kingdom (3.1%) 29 other countries (17.2%)           READ MORE: animals, pets, dogs, cats, cruelty, Abandonment, Empathy, responsibility, bob etier, Starvation, torture, arrest, owners moved, dogs abandon, Wilbert Morrison, abandon house, animal, Nellie Brock, felony, misdemeanor, nc, North Carolina   More News From: Asheville :  NC :  USA      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 10            Reply  Posted By       Adebanjos
| about 18 hours ago
  
Well written, well done job rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       MichelleDevlin
| about 18 hours ago
  
thanks for bringing attention to this very sad but interesting information - it is hard to imagine there are so many cruel people in the world! rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       Vicky247
| about 16 hours ago
  
Thanks for this update rated up.
             Reply  Posted By       Orakul
| about 15 hours ago
  
These people need tethered and chained. With food and water just out of their reach. Mistreat an animal or child and I would love to hunt you down.
             Reply  Posted By       wadadli
| about 12 hours ago
  
i think when it come to pets like dogs and cats that no one family should've no more 1 animal since they can have a diifulty in providing for them. Likewise shelters should be readily available to those that can no long care for their pets. In the meantime I would like all to remember our suffering brothers and sisters in Somilia so try a little kind name in the name of both Love and humanity.rate up
             Reply  Reply By       bob etier
| about 11 hours ago
  
Since I have three cats and three dogs, I can't make a blanket statement that no one should have more than one. However, for some people one is too many--if they can't afford a pet, they shouldn't adopt one. In the meantime, a lot of animal rescuers have multiple dogs and cats (and horses, etc.), many of which would have been killed if not adopted.As for our brothers and sisters in Somalia, we need to pray for them, and help as we can.It is a tragic situation.
             Reply  Posted By       George Vieto
| about 9 hours ago
  
I am a firm believer that dogs are man's best friend and mistreating a dog is worse than abusing a child.
             Reply  Posted By       Brigid Jean Primrose
| about 4 hours ago
  
Having only adopted rescued dogs for many years and seeing how they have so much love to give one as a thank you for loving me I cannot understand how people like these monsters can sleep at night. Animal abusers need to remember, 'The mills of God grind slowly.
             Reply  Posted By       Mohamed Abd el Fattah
| about 3 hours ago
  
Excellent piece of work.....rated up!
             Reply  Posted By       jinkinpark
| about 1 hour ago
  
Great report. Rated up
                    Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel           
​
   Related Allvoices Contributions          Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply By: katetier      9/10/2011 00:18 UTC
Heartbreaking cases of animal cruelty, neglect, torture, and killing are reported every day; however the perpetrators are generally not people who have set themselves up as animal rescuers. In fact, it is rescue operations that are often responsible for saving the lives of mistreated animals. In an Illinois case, a self  5 days ago     Abandoned for two weeks, starving dogs eat owner By: skooter      Skooter reporting 09/08/11
This is a bizarre story imagine seven dogs left behind with
no food and water for a couple of weeks and are suspected of eating their
Indonesian owner after he returned from a holiday, local media reported on
Tuesday.
It happened when a neighborhood guard became curious when he saw a row of luggage
outside ...  7 days ago     Starving Dogs Eat Owner After Being Abandoned For Two Weeks By: dunite      
A neighborhood guard called police after smelling something
foul in the residence of 50-year-old Andre Lumboga in Manado when he approached
the house finding luggage lined up at the front porch.
Eriyana, a local police chief in Batam, an island off
Sumatra, said they found Lumboga’s body in front of the house but his skull was
found ...  7 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest    Burberry Bags  Submitted By: jamelucy
| about 8 hours ago
 
Burberry is generally a luxury producer using a distinctive British sensibility, powerful worldwide acknowledgement and differentiating producer values. Burberry Bags could possibly be the ultimate mark of British fashion, ...   Animal Abuse: 2 dogs abandoned at home - High Point, NC | Pet-Abuse.Com Animal Cruelty Database  Submitted By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
  Images for this Case Two people face animal cruelty charges after neglected dogs were found at their former home. High Point police animal control officers responded to 844 Willow Place on Sept. 2 after getting a call about two dogs that had been ...   2 Arrested, Charged After Dog Found Tethered to Tree - WGHP  Submitted By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
  Staff Writer GREENSBORO N.C. (WGHP)— Police arrested two people in connection with an animal cruelty case involving a dog that was left chained to a tree for up to two months without food or shelter. Investigators said Nellie Brock and Wilbert ...   Support Chamberlin's Law - Strengthen Animal Welfare protections in NC! | BlueNC  Submitted By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
  Submitted by Jake Gellar-Goad on Wed, 02/02/2011 - 10:56pm From the people who brought you Susie's Law , here is another case that highlights the need to strengthen animal abuse protections in NC: Chamberlin was discovered abandoned in a yard in ...   Will there be justice for starved dog? - National Dogs | Examiner.com  Submitted By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
  High Point, NC - In September, 2010, a Lab mix was found tethered to a tree - emaciated and too weak to stand. The dog, Chamberlin, had been left behind by his owners who moved away from their home and left him behind...no food, no water, no shelter....   The Hindu : Andhra Pradesh / Hyderabad News : Owners dump pet dogs on roads  Submitted By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
   Pomeranian owners abandon them due to rampant hair shedding at home On an average, nearly 250 dogs are being abandoned in the city The kind of emotional trauma the dogs undergo is unimaginable sad plight: Being abandoned suddenly, pet dogs do ...   More Related Stories     Images    >         Chamberlin    Chamberlin Image Source: allvoices Chamberlin, the High Point, NC, dog who was left tethered in an abandoned ...        Interactive Animal Cruelty Map    Interactive Animal Cruelty Map Image Source: allvoices This map represents a section of North Carolina; each pin represents an ...      More Related Images    More From Asheville          Never Mind the Yellow Snow, Don't Eat the Blue Sunshine        Train Yourself to Train Your Dog: The Evolution of Charlie Darwin: Partner with Your Dog Using Positive Training by Beth Duman, CPDT-KA        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get You, Ol’ Blue        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas Ackerman          KidVid: The Awesome Towers and the Man Who Dared        Join Super Why in welcoming Woofster        Many Forget the Line Drawn in Torture        Animal Rescuers Needed: Subhumans Need Not Apply          Let’s Celebrate Menopause…Wait…What?        FamilyVid: Babar: The Classic Series: School Days on DVD        FamilyVid: Babar: The Classic Series: Best Friends Forever is now on DVD       Belief that Women are Inferior IS Inferior           Thomas & Friends: Day of the Diesels - The Movie on DVD               Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10336528          Cartoons of The Day             NATO weak spots          Euro design flaw            Other face of Terrorism          On Palestinian statehood    See More Cartoons »                   Most Viewed Reports     TWO YOUTHS HANGING ON A BRIDGE OF NUEVO LAREDO (MEXICO) . By: CATALINABELENAMARTINEZ
| about 21 hours ago
      Canada: Group wants George W Bush arrested on Oct. 20 when he speaks ... By: northsunm32
| about 13 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move By: katetier
| about 18 hours ago
      U.S. Hikers: Judiciary dampens President's prediction By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      Saudi armored vehicles enter Yemen By: TajdarHaider
| about 16 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      Silver: Silver marches southwards By: shiraxinco
| about 4 hours ago
      BP's Master Demon Directs Minion to Transocean By: StephEaly
| about 7 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     TV Choice Awards 2011: surprised! EastEnders victory again By: HumTum
| about 20 hours ago
      The dangers of a Republican President in 2012 By: itobin53
| about 23 hours ago
      A Red lipstick scored her marriage!! By: nthabeleng
| about 21 hours ago
      The Americans hikers will not be released:Iran By: HumTum
| about 24 hours ago
      Consistent on Issues? Ron Paul's Campaign Manager Died Uninsured By: susievee
| about 14 hours ago
      One in six Americans living below poverty line By: solarp
| about 19 hours ago
      Death Row Inmate Troy Davis Scheduled To Die In 7 Days Despite 7 Of 9 ... By: susievee
| about 21 hours ago
      A woman obsessed with text messaging documents 100,000 texts in a book!... By: nthabeleng
| about 23 hours ago
      Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Sexy Braless Pimping for Burberry and ... By: MasalaReporter
| about 19 hours ago
      How to make candied apples for Halloween By: solarp
| about 22 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 6       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 2       Images: 3       Comments: 10    10       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10336528), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10336528 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10336528 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Dogs abandoned to starve when owners move” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10336528-dogs-abandoned-to-starve-when-owners-move.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                        