2007  June | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Day In The Life Of An Ambulance Driver
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firegeezer
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
Street Watch: Notes of a Paramedic
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


Angora Fire, Patrol, Mop-Up, Demob. C-Ya!
Comments Off






Latest Fire Perimeter Map(Inciweb)

InciWeb reports June 27, 2007 9:30 p.m.
“Tomorrow, crews will continue to work into the fire perimeter to fall dead trees and cool hot spots. Construction and improvement of fire lines will also continue.”
 
Fire Information Centers: LTBMU Forest Supervisor’s Office / Incident Command Post 
 
Start Date: June 24, 2007, 2:00 p.m.   
 
Location: South of Lake Tahoe and west of Fallen Leaf Lake
 
Acreage: 3,100   Containment: 55%  Expected Containment: July 3, 2007
 
Fuel type: Heavy timber Injuries: 3   Cause: Under Investigation
 
Committed Fire Resources: 2,174
 
  Engines: 164 Crews: 39 Helicopters: 21 Dozers: 4 Water Tenders: 15
 
Discussion: 
 
· The fire area did not receive the high winds which were predicted for this afternoon. However, strong winds, averaging 15 – 20 miles per hour, with gusts to 35 are predicted for tomorrow. With the lighter winds, crews continued to make excellent progress on building and strengthening fire lines, maintaining structure protection and working into the fire perimeter to cool hot spots.” 
 
 




Posted by Mike
on 06/28/2007 •
		Filed under: Angora Fire



10 Tanker Gets Wings Clipped
Comments Off






This article describes the current status of this all important firefighting tool.
“The plane, which has shown to be effective fighting large wildland fires, encountered a mishap while fighting the White Fire near Tehachapi on Monday.
After hitting severe turbulence, it descended rapidly but the crew was able to recover after hitting some trees by accelerating the plane.
The Forest Service has refused to certify the plane over concerns about the number of hours already logged on the 31-year-old DC-10, said Mark Rey, a Department of Agriculture undersecretary.
Victorville Councilman Bob Hunter said he hoped the plane would be back in action soon. “That plane really presents a critical advantage for CAL FIRE, and hopefully will be for the Forest Service soon.”
The state has contracted with the plane’s owner, 10 Tanker Air Carrier at Southern California Logistics Airport in Victorville, for exclusive use of Tanker 910 through the 2009 fire season at a cost of $5 million per year. “




Posted by Mike
on 06/27/2007 •
		Filed under: 10 Tanker, firefighting technology



Updated Perimeter Map and Links From Angora Incident
Comments Off






Angora Fire Perimeter Map(Google maps link)

Via California Fire News from NorthTree Fire




Posted by Mike
on 06/27/2007 •
		Filed under: Angora Fire



Angora Fire At a Crossroads Today
Comments Off






The major networks and cable news people are reporting new evacuations overnight but their facts are stale. Local journalists are not only closer to the scene but they can turn to their local sources for information. The online edition of the Tahoe Daily Tribune is THE local media outlet of note and they are reporting today;
“Update: 8:17 a.m. Strong winds that fueled flare-up remain concern with Tahoe fire
MEYERS, Calif. (AP) — Firefighters were warned Wednesday that stronger afternoon winds could stoke a turbulent wildfire near Lake Tahoe and pose a threat to their safety, a day after a flare-up forced thousands of residents to flee.
Officials believed they had a handle on the eastern edge of the blaze, which already has destroyed nearly 200 homes at the south end of the scenic alpine lake. But a surprisingly big gust Tuesday afternoon was all it took to push firefighters off the line they had been holding for more than a day.
The surge briefly trapped two firefighters and forced the evacuation of the Tallac Village development, which includes 300 homes.
“It really is hard to predict what these winds are going to do,” said Kelly Martin, a fire behavior analyst who addressed hundreds of firefighters from across the state at a pre-dawn briefing Wednesday.”
The guys will be chasing spots at the very least.




Posted by Mike
on 06/27/2007 •
		Filed under: Angora Fire



Angora Fire Photos and Fire Map Updates
4 comments






Google search visitors- You landed here because of a search on Google.com.  Firefighter Blog posted 6 articles about the Angora Fire.  Please read the complete log of Angora Fire posts Here.
Update: KCRA reports fire jumped fire lines.
Web cam shots from KCRA.com

From the latest incident update from InciWeb “Back fire burnouts continued last night in the north and northeast divisions of the fire perimeter, and account for most of the smoke seen from the fire area this morning.”
InciWeb has an updated detailed map of the Angora Fire perimeter.
This thing is not out by a long shot. Depending on the wind and what the fire does behind Tahoe Mountain there may be a lot of life left in this beast. Camp Richardson and the highway may not be out of play just yet. I read two forest service personnel deployed fire shelters and all went well. I also read that Lake Tahoe does NOT honor the 100 foot defensible space ordinances required by the State of California. This is unacceptable and only serves to place fire service personnel in danger. Erosion concerns my butt, there are many ways to halt erosion.If your property is not brushed correctly it does not deserve the effort required to save it.




Posted by Mike
on 06/27/2007 •
		Filed under: Angora Fire



Angora Fire Perimeter Map and Update
Comments Off






Image from Geomac
Fire Update
Angora-|CA|TMU|2500|40|7/1|1295|30|89|9|275|

Size 2,500 acres
Personnel 1,295
Engines 89
Crews 30
Helicopters 9
Estimated containment July 1
Structures Lost 275






Posted by Mike
on 06/26/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, Angora Fire



Angora Fire Video
1 comment






Bob Becker of the U.S. Forest Service discusses the incident with KCRA tv from Sacramento.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=13cGR6boouE]
High fuel density + Low fuel moisture + Wind = 220 homes vaporized.
More Angora Fire videos




Posted by Mike
on 06/26/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season



Map And Views Of Angora Fire Area
Comments Off






Google search visitors- You landed here because of a search on Google.com. Firefighter Blog posted 6 articles about the Angora Fire. Please read the complete log of Angora Fire posts Here.**Update: I was contacted by a gentleman who is trying to coordinate housing relief for residents displaced by the Angora Fire. His intent is to grab vacation rentals for temporary use by affected Lake Tahoe residents. Burned out folks who need a place contact Clark at angorafireoutreach@gmail.com.
According to the Tahoe Daily Tribune “The mass evacuations of residents were ordered in the North Upper Truckee and Tahoe Mountain areas – where the fire shot up the ridge and burned homes on Mule Deer Road, Coyote Ridge Circle, Mount Rainier Drive, Clear View Drive on up to Uplands Way near Angora Ridge. All but two homes had burned on Pyramid Circle.”
Google Maps offers an ability to zoom in on the neighborhood and surrounding area via satellite view, road map view or a hybrid view.
Here is a view from the Angora Fire Lookout from Tahoe-Lookouts .




Posted by Mike
on 06/25/2007 •
		Filed under: Angora Fire



Angora Fire Photo and WebCam Link
Comments Off







Webcam view of the Angora Fire from VirtualTahoe.com.

The Tahoe Sky Cam is                          LIVE and is located at the top of Harveys Resort &                          Casino on the Nevada side of Lake Tahoe, South Shore. 




Posted by Mike
on 06/25/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



More on Lake Tahoe Angora Fire
2 comments






Tahoe Daily Tribune reporter Susan Wood describes her close encounter with the Angora fire.
(Editorial note; isn’t it about time newspapers begin blogs for major local events?)




Posted by Mike
on 06/25/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season



Angora Fire, Hundreds Of Homes Burn In Lake Tahoe
Comments Off






Straight from the NICC morning report;
National Interagency Coordination CenterIncident Management Situation ReportMonday, June 25, 2007 – 0530 MDTNational Preparedness Level 2Northern California Area (PL 2)New fires: 27New large fires: 1Uncontained large fires: 1Type 2 IMTs committed: 1
Angora, Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit, FS. IMT 2 (Swartzlander). Two miles southwest of South Lake Tahoe, CA. Timber and grass. Wind driven fire with long range spotting. Residences, businesses and recreationareas threatened. Voluntary evacuation in effect.
* Angora       |CA| TMU|  1800|  0| 6/28|  560| 15| 89|   8| 240| 250K|1,800 acres0% containment240 structuresMore
There is generally poor media coverage of this event.  CNN is trumping Fox News and MSNBC and news wires are all parroting the same byline.Bloggers talking




Posted by Mike
on 06/25/2007 •
		Filed under: 2007 fire season, wildfires



Short Hits
3 comments






More about the tragedy in Charleston S.C. from Hamptons Fire including a diagram and timeline as well as video.
Copter/Chopper Chick Desiree Horton and her crew are busy.




Posted by Mike
on 06/20/2007 •
		Filed under: Friends of Firefighter Blog



Nine Firefighters Die In Charleston Warehouse Fire
1 comment






This is sad beyond belief.  Before they died they rescued 4 civilians from the blaze.
“Nine brave, heroic, courageous firefighters of the city of Charleston have perished fighting fire in a most courageous and fearless manner, carrying out their duties,” Charleston Mayor Joseph P. Riley said at a morning news conference. “To all of their loved ones, our heart goes out to them.”
Two employees in the building were rescued from the blaze, which broke out at about 7 p.m. Monday in the Sofa Super Store and warehouse, Riley said. Firefighters punched a hole through a wall of the warehouse to reach them.
Firefighters, police officers and other rescue workers saluted as the bodies were carried from the warehouse during the night.
“To lose nine is just a tragedy of immense proportions,” Riley said. “To lose nine is just unbelievable.”
The cause of the fire was under investigation, but Riley said arson was not suspected. He said the blaze apparently started in a storage area. He was unsure whether there were sprinklers in the building.”More..
Blogs discussing the tragedy




Posted by Mike
on 06/19/2007 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



USS New York
Comments Off






USS New YorkShip’s motto: “Never Forget“


It was built with 24 tons of scrap steel from the World Trade  Center.
It is the fifth in a new class of warship – designed for missions that include special operations against terrorists. It will carry a crew of 360 sailors and 700 combat-ready Marines to be delivered ashore by helicopters and assault craft.Steel from the World Trade Center was melted down in a foundry in Amite,  LA to cast the ship’s bow section. When it was poured into the molds on Sept. 9, 2003, “those big rough steelworkers treated it with total reverence,” recalled Navy Capt. Kevin Wensing, who was there. “It was a spiritual moment for everybody there.”
Junior Chavers, foundry operations manager, said that when the trade center steel first arrived, he touched it with his hand and the “hair on my neck stood up.” “It had a big meaning to it for all of us,” he said. “They knocked us down They can’t keep us down. We’re going to be back.”
Facts about the USS New York
Listen To Anchors Away




Posted by Mike
on 06/15/2007 •
		Filed under: Sept 11 war on terror



Two Fire Videos, Both So Wrong For Different Reasons
6 comments






The first video is an animated effort by persons with a perverted concept of firefighting and firefighters. It’s so bad I had to post it.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YZVfHW0T4fA]
Full story from Hope Fire Company




Posted by Mike
on 06/10/2007 •
		Filed under: Fire Video



Off Topic: The Speech We'll Never Hear
3 comments






The following was sent to me via an email chain from a source full of good Americans. I cannot attribute it to anyone as it was signed — Anonymous!If anyone knows where it came from originally please leave a comment, thanks.The speech George W. Bush SHOULD give:
“Normally, I start these things out by saying “My Fellow Americans.”   Not doing it this time. If the polls are any indication, I don’t know who more than half of you are anymore.  I do know something terrible has happened, and that you’re really not fellow Americans any longer.
       I’ll cut right to the chase here: I quit. Now before anyone gets all in a lather about me quitting to avoid impeachment, or to avoid prosecution or something, let me assure you: there’s been no breaking of laws or impeachable offenses in this office.
      The reason I’m quitting is simple. I’m fed up with you people.
      I’m fed up because you have no understanding of what’s really going on in the world. Or of what’s going on in this once-great nation of ours. And the majority of you are too damned lazy to do your homework and figure it out.
      Let’s start local. You’ve been sold a bill of goods by politicians and the news media.  Polls show that the majority of you think the economy is in the tank. And that’s despite record numbers of homeowners including record numbers of MINORITY homeowners. And while we’re mentioning minorities, I’ll point out that minority business ownership is at an all-time high. Our unemployment rate is as low as it ever was during the Clinton Administration. I’ve mentioned all those things before, but it doesn’t seem to have sunk in.
      Despite the shock to our economy of 9/11, the stock market has rebounded to record levels and more Americans than ever are participating in these markets. Meanwhile, all you can do is whine about gas prices, and most of you are too damn stupid to realize that gas prices are high because there’s increased demand in other parts of the world, and because a small handful of noisy idiots are more worried about polar bears and beachfront property than your economic security.
       We face real threats in the world. Don’t give me this “blood for oil” thing.  If I was trading blood for oil I would’ve already seized Iraq’s oil fields and let the rest of the country go to hell. And don’t give me this ‘Bush Lied People Died’ crap either. If I was the liar you morons take me for, I could’ve easily had chemical weapons planted in Iraq so they could be ‘discovered.’ Instead, I owned up to the fact that the intelligence was faulty. Let me remind you that the rest of the world thought Saddam had the goods, same as me. Let me also remind you that regime change in Iraq was official US policy before I came into office. Some guy named ‘Clinton’ established that policy. Bet you didn’t know that, did you?
       You idiots need to understand that we face a unique enemy.   Back during the cold war, there were two major competing political and economic models squaring off. We won that war, but we did so because fundamentally, the Communists wanted to survive, just as we do. We were simply able to outspend and out-tech them.
      That’s not the case this time. The soldiers of our new enemy don’t care if they survive. In fact, they want to die. That’d be fine, as long as they weren’t also committed to taking as many of you with them as they can. But they are. They want to kill you. And the bastards are all over the globe.
      You should be grateful that they haven’t gotten any more of us here in the United States since September 11. But you’re not. That’s because you’ve got no idea how hard a small number of intelligence, military, law enforcement and homeland security people have worked to make sure of that.
      When this whole mess started, I warned you that this would be a long and difficult fight. I’m disappointed how many of you people think a long and difficult fight amounts to a single season of ‘Survivor’.
      Instead, you’ve grown impatient. You’re incapable of seeing things through the long lens of history, the way our enemies do. You think that wars should last a few months, a few years, tops.
     Making matters worse, you actively support those who help the enemy. Every time you buy the New York Times, every time you send a donation to a cut-and-run Democrat’s political campaign, well, dammit, you might just as well Fedex a grenade launcher to a Jihadist. It amounts to the same thing.
      In this day and age, it’s easy enough to find the truth. It’s all over the Internet. It just isn’t on the pages of the New York Times or on NBC News. But even if it were, I doubt you’d be any smarter. Most of you would rather watch American Idol.
      I could say more about your expectations that the government will always be there to bail you out, even if you’re too stupid to leave a city that’s below sea level and has a hurricane approaching. I could say more about your insane belief that government, not your own wallet, is where the money comes from. But I’ve come to the conclusion that were I to do so, it would sail right over your heads.
        So I quit. I’m going back to Crawford. I’ve got an energy-efficient house down there (Al Gore could only dream) and the capability to be fully self-sufficient. No one ever heard of Crawford before I got elected, and as soon as I’m done here pretty much no one will ever hear of it again. Maybe I’ll be lucky enough to die of old age before the last pillars of America fall.
        Oh, and by the way, Cheney’s quitting too. That means Pelosi is your new President. You asked for it. Watch what she does carefully, because I still have a glimmer of hope that there’re just enough of you remaining who are smart enough to turn this thing around in 2008.
        So that’s it. God bless what’s left of America. Some of you know what I mean.”




Posted by Mike
on 06/02/2007 •
		Filed under: politics



Firefighters On Wikipedia
Comments Off






Wikipedia now occupies the top search result spot on Google.com for the term “Firefighters”.There are lots of great links and info on the site including this glossary of wildland fire terms.As much time as I spent in servce there are terms within I never heard. Some terminology must be regional.  A brief glance at the list acts as a reminder that fire season is upon us here in the West. Early fire activity in Southern California, Goergia, Florida, New Jersey, Arizona and even Minnesota have set the stage for what could be a very dramatic summer.




Posted by Mike
on 06/02/2007 •
		Filed under: wildfires, wildland fire

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 1 day ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 2 days ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 2 days ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 1 week ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video
Willie Wines Jr. 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



State Fire News Roundup…

September 11th: One Victim Identified in Triple Fatal MVA
September 9th: Hundreds Attend 9/11… (more)




Zen Zone #30…

When you are challenged with a problem, it always helps to maintain perspective.… (more)




Report: Driver Error Blamed For Missouri…

Three firefighters in the truck were injured.… (more)




9/11 Commemoration … Firegeezer is…

The average citizen doesn't comprehend the cohesiveness that firefighters and police officers have… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















