Stoneleigh on Spring Creek



News FeedComments






Home
Living at Stoneleigh
Your Team at Stoneleigh
Gallery











Apartment Living

Around Town

Community Notices

Food

Getaways

Go Green

Health & Fitness






























Book Clubs in North ...
Meetup.com is a great resource to find book clubs...




Learn ways to Stay H...
Learn about healthy dinning at Garland's...




Here are Some Ways t...
Lend a helping hand to Central Texas wildfire...




Ways to Live Green a...
Photo courtesy of Flickr
In the past decade there...




Plan the Perfect Pic...
 
Plan the perfect picnic in Garland by following...









Community Blog




Book Clubs in North Dallas

Posted on September 14, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








It is difficult to read with a lot of people making noise, yet when you are done with a great book it feels like you want to tell the whole world about it. Finishing an amazing tale or riveting adventure seems to invigorate your need to tell everyone around you about the amazing book you just finished. If you want to meet people that share this need to discuss... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, FeaturedTags: Activities in North Dallas, Apartment Living in Garland TX, living in Garland TX, things to do in Garland TX




Learn ways to Stay Healthy at Garland’s Healthy Living Expo 2011

Posted on September 12, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








Living a healthy lifestyle is a twenty-four hour, 365 day task. Staying up-to-date on ways to remain healthy is important for living a long and productive life as well as teaches your child the fundamentals of remaining healthy. At the end of the month, The City of Garland will be offering every resident the special opportunity to learn about staying healthy,... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Featured, Go Green, Health & FitnessTags: apartment health and fitness, Apartment Living in Garland TX, Health and Fitness in Garland TX, things to do in Garland, things to do in Garland TX




Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire

Posted on September 8, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








Texans can agree that this has been an especially rough summer. Regular dosages of triple digit temperatures have made outdoor activities nearly unbearable, and the drought has caused worlds of trouble for farmers and ranchers across the state. Unfortunately, these two weather phenomena have collided and caused one of the biggest wildfires in recent memory.... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Around Town, FeaturedTags: Charitable organizations in Garland TX, living in Garland TX, things to do in Garland TX, Volunteer in Garland TX




Ways to Live Green at Stoneleigh

Posted on September 5, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








In the past decade there has been a resurgence of environmental responsibility. Families, businesses and governments around the world have grasped onto the concept of 'Going Green', which is an initiative to create a culture of environmental responsibility. Many people shy away from 'Going Green' because they feel that it will interfere in their everyday... [Read more...]
Filed under Apartment Living, Featured, Go GreenTags: Apartment Living in Garland TX, apartments in garland tx, Green Apartment Living, things to do in Garland TX




Learn about Outdoor Recreation at ‘Second Annual Outdoor Festival’

Posted on September 1, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








A daily workout routine is crucial for living a long and healthy life. To stay in shape, it is not necessary to workout at a gym. Outdoor recreation is a fun way to get off the couch and burn a few calories built-up over the week. If you are unsure or uncertain about outdoor activities, visit the Second Annual Outdoor Festival for a full day of demonstrations... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, Getaways, Health & FitnessTags: Health and Fitness in Garland TX, living in Garland TX, outdoor recreation in Dallas, things to do in Garland TX




See the Next Big Star at the Kirk Herbstreit National Kickoff Classic

Posted on August 30, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








In high school, football players have few defining moments as special as running onto the field each Friday evening. Theses talented young athletes balance school and hours of practice to prepare for each opponent. Kirk Herbstreit, an ESPN analysis and former collegiate athlete, noticed the hard work of these young athletes and formed the Kirk Herbstreit... [Read more...]
Filed under Around TownTags: Family friendly events near Garland TX, Sports events around Garland TX, things to do in Dallas




Plan the Perfect Picnic with these Tips

Posted on August 25, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet






 



Did you know that Labor Day is right around the corner? With Labor Day rapidly approaching it is time to figure out what to do with your extra day off from work. Specials, events and family activities are occurring all across Dallas, but how about an activity that is more laid back and calming. Hosting a picnic for your family or spouse would be the... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, Featured, FoodTags: dining in Dallas TX, getaways close to dallas, living in Garland TX, things to do in Garland TX




Prepare for these North Texas Job Fairs

Posted on August 22, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








America and much of the world's economies are going through a difficult time. As investors and corporations try to acclimate and pull out of this recession, it has become increasingly harder to find employment. The good news is that two great job fairs are about to come to the Dallas-Fort Worth area. These job fairs will offer hundreds of employment opportunities... [Read more...]
Filed under Around TownTags: Apartment Living in Garland TX, living in Garland TX, things to do in Dallas, things to do in Garland TX




Rock & Roll Extravaganza in Garland Texas

Posted on August 18, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








One of the perks of living in Garland is that you are right outside of the hustle and bustle of Dallas. The single drawback of living outside of the city is that it seems like you have to commute to all of the exciting, new events. Next weekend, Garland residents will have the special opportunity to attend a great concert right down the road. Rock &... [Read more...]
Filed under Around Town, FeaturedTags: concerts near garland tx, live music near Garland TX, music venue close to stoneleigh on spring creek, things to do in Garland TX




Getaway with Delaney’s Harvest & Grape Stomp

Posted on August 11, 2011 By abrookins (Edit) Leave a Comment





Tweet








Nowadays it is increasingly difficult to get out of town due to the uncertain economy and the need to save money. Rather than planning on a far getaway, that would probably cost tons of money, consider taking a short trip to Grapevine, Texas for the Harvest & Grape Stomp. Delaney Vineyards' Harvest & Grape Stomp would be a fun and refreshing trip... [Read more...]
Filed under Food, GetawaysTags: getaways close to dallas, staycation in Dallas TX

Next Page »







Are We Connected?
Enter your email address:






You Like Us, You Reeeally Like Us!


Recent Comments

Mr WordPress: Welcome to Stoneleigh! 

 



Event Calendar


« Aug





Oct »


September 2011

M
T
W
T
F
S
S


 1234
567891011
12131415161718
19202122232425
2627282930EC




 Recent Posts

Book Clubs in North Dallas
Learn ways to Stay Healthy at Garland’s Healthy Living Expo 2011
Here are Some Ways to Help Victims of the Texas Wildfire
Ways to Live Green at Stoneleigh
Learn about Outdoor Recreation at ‘Second Annual Outdoor Festival’







Categories

Apartment Living

Around Town

Community Notices

Featured

Food

Getaways

Go Green

Health & Fitness




Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010






















Copyright © 2011 · All Rights Reserved · Powered by WordPress and NCI · Privacy Policy  · User Agreement · Fair Housing · Log in













