Wildfire Updates Saturday, September 10  |  KUT.org








KUT.org
Experience Austin Texas



PlaylistCactus CafeContact Us

FacebookTwitterFlickrYouTubeRSS75˚FDonate Now!



Listen
Programs
News
Music
Calendar
Storyboard
Get Involved
Support
Tech
About


0


 

 
Main Tech Page
Tech Photo Blog


 
How to Listen 


 
Mobile Guide 


 
RSS & Podcasts 


 
Systems Status Page 



 

 
Launch Player
Playlist
Mobile Guide 


 
How to Listen 


 
On-Air Schedules 


 
RSS & Podcasts 



 

 
Main News Page 
About KUT News 
Contact KUT News 


 
News Blog 


 
Changing Austin 
Where I'm From 


 
Texas Political Parlor 


 

Shuttle 




 

 
 Main Programs Page 


Programs A-Z 


Schedules 

Playlist


 

Sonic IDs 



 

O 'Dark 30 



 

Arts Eclectic 



 

Connect with KUT 




 

 

Main Music Page 


About KUT Music 


Contact KUT Music 


Submit Your Music 

Playlist


 

Austin Music Minute 


Texas Music Matters 


Song of the day 


This Week in Texas Music History 



 

Features 


Off the Record  


Armadillo Oral History Project 



 

Music Archive 

 Videos


Top Plays 



 

Cactus Cafe 


 

 

 

Main Calendar Page 


Submit an Event 




 

 

Main Get Involved Page 


About Get Involved 



 

Submit a PSA 




 

 

Main Storyboard Austin Page 


About Storyboard Austin 



 

Portrait of an Artist


Around Town



 

Arts Eclectic 



 
Views and Brews 



 

What We're Watching




 

 Membership   

Main Membership Page 

 Membership FAQ  
 Sustaining Membership  

Leadership Circle 

 Business Circle 



  

Capital Campaign 


Car Donations 


Individual Membership


Planned Giving 


Donate 



Sponsorships 

Program Sponsorships 

 Sponsor Directory 




Volunteer with KUT 
 

Volunteer opportunities 




 

 

About KUT 


KUT FAQ 



 

Press  


Advisory Board 



 

Jobs 



 

KUT Public Broadcast Center 



 

Cactus Cafe 




 

Listen Now











Events From Our Sponsors


 View all events »
KUT Sponsor





 
User:

Pass:

Forgot?
Register 





Music Quick LinksContact KUT Music
Submit Your Music
How to Listen
Music Archive
Song of the Day
Tweets from @KUTAUSTIN

Yellow Ostrich: “Mary”: Yellow Ostrich's Alex Schaaf is a graduate of Lawrence University, where he studied in t... http://t.co/S0wcC9iy 26 minutes ago
Report: 41 Percent of Texas Child Cancer Patients Use Medicaid: More than two out of five children with cancer i... http://t.co/uZJbDR7U 12 hours ago
Tossed Cigarette Out Car Window? You Can Report Them: With wildfires scorching thousands of acres of Central Tex... http://t.co/GzjcjO3k 12 hours ago

KUT News Blog 
Stay current with the state and local news. Check out the KUT News blog for quick updates throughout the day.
» read more

170 Million Americans for Public Broadcast 
KUT has joined with hundreds of public media organizations across the country to educate the public on the importance of federal funding for public media. 170 Million Americans for Public Broadcasting is a national grassroots effort to rally the support of the 170 million Americans who listen to or use public media each month. We believe in the public-private partnership that has built public broadcasting—and KUT—into the essential service that it is today. To learn more check out our FAQ.
KUT’s Song of the Day 
Check out our Song of the Day archive and download your favorite songs.
» read more
Get Involved! 
Roll up your sleeves and Get Involved! Each month, we feature a Central Texas non-profit organization that needs your support. Learn more about the organization and their cause and find out how YOU can get involved in our community! »Get Involved now
KUT on Youtube  
We're huge on Youtube! Check out all the videos you can handle from news, showcases at the Cactus, music festivals and much much more.
KUT Car Donation

Got a car you need off your hands? Our car donation program is an easy way to contribute.» read more








News 
Wildfire Updates Saturday, September 10
September 10, 2011 9:37 am by: Nathan Bernier

Two chairs sit on the property of a devastated home in the Bastrop community of Tahitian Village. Photo by Jeff Heimsath for KUT News


Audio clip: Adobe Flash Player (version 9 or above) is required to play this audio clip. Download the latest version here. You also need to have JavaScript enabled in your browser.

Update at 5:27 p.m.
Governor Rick Perry missed a news conference he scheduled with reporters at 4 p.m. in Bastrop today. Perry’s office distributed an email to media last night saying he “will give remarks and be joined by emergency management officials for a media availability following a tour of wildfire damage in Bastrop County.”
A spokesman for the Governor’s office says Perry was absent because of logistical reasons. Lucy Nashed told KUT News that the original location chosen for the news conference, 392 McAlister Rd, was in a neighborhood that was not open to the public.
Local officials wanted to hold the press conference instead in front of Roscar Chocolates, which is no longer in a restricted area, but for Governor Perry to get there would have required everyone to wait “a really long time,” she said.
Texas Emergency Management chief Nim Kidd explained that the purpose of the news conference was to explain how Gov. Perry’s emergency hotel voucher program was progressing.
“This press conference was to recognize the actions and the organizations that have come together in order to get the people out of shelters, and we’ve done that by issuing 182 vouchers,” Kidd said. “That was the purpose of this press conference.”
Perry last visited Bastrop on Monday, skipping a high-profile Tea Party forum to tour the scene. The next day, Perry visited the Steiner Ranch subdivision west of Austin, where a wildfire destroyed 23 homes.
Other elected officials did make an appearance at the press conference, which was held in front of a Bastrop home that had been gutted by flames. State Sen. Kirk Watson urged people to be patient and obey the requests of public safety officials.
“While the fire moved fast, the process of recovery will not be as fast,” Watson said.
Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald, a regular fixture at daily press briefings on the 34,000 acre wildfire, said officials were working hard to get people back in their homes.
“We’re working on the process to get you back in and bringing Bastrop back to the place where when you drove down here, all you saw was the lovely pines,” McDonald said.
In other developments:
An officer with Travis County Constable Precinct 2 died today after he fell ill while working on wildfire damage in Steiner Ranch, KXAN reports.
Bastrop County has posted an updated list of homes that are confirmed to have been destroyed. An additional 122 homes have been added to the list, bringing it to 622. Officials estimate almost 1,400 homes have been lost.
A Level Orange Ozone Watch day has been issued for Sunday. That means it’s likely the air quality will be low enough that people with respiratory illness and the elderly should limit outdoor activity.
Anyone whose home was destroyed or damaged by wildfires can now register for federal assistance at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362).
 
Update at 11:15 a.m. 
A 34,000 acre wildfire in Bastrop County is being kept at bay and is now 40 percent contained. Firefighters are now focusing on protecting undamaged structures within the burn zone.
“Crews continue to make progress,” Bastrop County Emergency Management Coordinator Mike Fisher said at a morning news briefing. “We’ve got active fire in the interior around neighborhoods and even in some rural pasture land type settings.”
Fisher says fire crews flew over the burn zone last night with infrared cameras to give them an idea of where the hotspots are located. He says the situation has improved since their last infrared flyover two days ago.
A US Forest Service DC-10 jet airliner would not be useful in fighting the fire, officials said, because it would require evacuating firefighters who are working to restrict the fire’s advancement on homes still untouched by the flames.
 
In somewhat of an indication of the advancements being made against the stubborn wildfire, the entire stretch of Highway 71 will be reopened today in Bastrop County.
The number of confirmed addresses destroyed by the wildfire rose by 122 buildings today to a total of 622. Officials estimate the total number of destroyed homes to be closer to 1,400. A list of the newly identified homes is posted at the Bastrop Convention Center and will be eventually be posted on the county’s website.
Evacuated residents are growing increasingly frustrated with having to wait to return to their homes. Some of them shouted at emergency management officials during a briefing today, after it was announced that firefighters will accompany insurance adjusters into some evacuated areas of the burn zone to conduct damage assessments.
The Bastrop County Sheriff’s Office released the identity of the second person killed in the Bastrop Complex Fire. 58-year-old Vickie Keenan’s body was found at 253 Ponderosa Loop. Her death was announced on Tuesday.
Bluebonnet Electric says it plans to restore power to the western portion of the Tahitian Village neighborhood today, a Bastrop community whose residents were allowed to return this week.
The utility’s CEO, Mark Rose, said about 3,300 households remain without power. But he said that number should start reducing more rapidly, once crews move downed power lines and restore utility poles destroyed by the wildfire.
“We will have a big day today,” Rose said at the morning briefing.
In response to unconfirmed reports of looting, the Bastrop County Sheriff’s office suggested those rumors were overblown. Only one case of looting has been confirmed, and it was several days ago in at the Union Chapel fire in Cedar Creek. Residents in that neighborhood are all being allowed to return home today.
A boil water order has been lifted in about 70 percent of Aqua Water’s service area. The company has recovered all of its water processing capacity and about 85 percent of its distribution capacity.
The Smithville Independent School District will open its doors to employees and students at 7 a.m. on Monday morning. Counselors will be available.  Twenty-three Smithville ISD staff members were displaced and nine lost their homes.
A non-denominational service is scheduled for tomorrow at 10 a.m. in the Bastrop High School cafeteria. Public safety officials began today’s briefing with a Christian prayer.
“This is not just a physical war, it is a spiritual war,” Bastrop County Judge Ronnie McDonald said.
Governor Perry is scheduled to return to Bastrop County today to tour the devestation again. He was last there on Monday. The next update from public safety officials is scheduled for 10:30 tomorrow morning.
Earlier: The White House has signed a federal disaster declaration for Texas in the wake of several wildfires, most notably the 34,000 acre wildfireburning in Bastrop County. The declaration frees up federal disaster relief funds. Gov. Rick Perry and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst had complained the process was taking too long.
Gov. Perry has announced an emergency hotel voucher program for victims of the Bastrop wildfire. In a statement, Perry said that up to $250,000 from the Texas Disaster Relief Fund will be distributed for hotel costs. The Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs will make $350,000 available in the form of flexible assistance cards. Those are basically debit cards that can be used to cover essential expenses for families. Volunteers will begin taking applications today at 10 a.m.
 
City of Austin animal control officers are helping the elite Texas Task Force 1 search and rescue team as it scours the 34,000 acre burn zone in Bastrop County. Any animals found in the area are being brought to theAustin Humane Society or the Bastrop Animal Shelter and will be held there until their owners reclaim them. Texas A&M University vets will provide medical care to wounded animals.
In case you were planning on driving through the area today, Bastrop County has posted the latest road closure updates on its website.  TxDOTsays it hopes to reopen Highway 71 today.
Want to help? Here’s a way you can double your donation. The daily deals site Moolala is partnering with Harte-Hanks to provide $20 donations for just $10.  Hart-Hanks will continue matching donations until the total reaches $2,500. You can buy the $20 donation for $10 here.
If you want other ways to help, the Austin Disaster Relief Network has a list of items needed and other ways you can volunteer on its website.
Share|







No comments yet.
 


Add your response
Comments are moderated. They are posted at the discretion of KUT if they stick to the topic and contribute to the conversation. They will not be published if they contain or link to abusive material, personal attacks, profanity or spam.


Click here to cancel reply.

You must be logged in to post a comment.






KUT Sponsor

 Become a KUT Sponsor


About 
About KUT
KUT FAQ
Support
Press
Advisory Board
Employment
KUT Public Broadcast Center
Cactus Cafe
University of Texas at Austin
College of Communication




Contact 
512-471-1631
kut@kut.org
Facebook
Twitter
Parking/Directions


Listen 
How to listen
Mobile

Programs 
Programs A-Z
Schedules
Playlist




News 
About KUT News
News blog
Contact KUT News

Music 
About KUT Music
Playlist
Live Archives
Song of the day
Austin Music Minute
Cactus cafe




Events 
Calendar
Submit an event

Connect 
Social Media
RSS

Storyboard Austin 
About




Support 
Membership FAQ
Sustaining Membership
Business Circle
Leadership Circle
Program sponsorships
Donate
Capital Campaign
Volunteer
Car donations
Planned giving

Legal 
Privacy policy







A service of the College of Communication at the University of Texas at Austin©2011 KUT / Design by Creative Suitcase / Development by Go9Media and KUT















