Asad’s Cressida Got a New Heart! « AutoModia


Twitter
Facebook
RSS Feed


Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to secondary content
Skip to footer





AutoModia


Automotive. Media. Houston.


HomeAboutAutomotive NewsProductsSponsors

 



 ← Houston Coffee and Cars September 2011: Shiny Cars! 

Texas Wildfire Donations for Columbus VFD!  → 


Asad’s Cressida Got a New Heart!

Posted on September 4, 2011 by syntheticgt


When was the last time you saw a wolf in sheep’s clothing?  Did you have any idea that you were even looking at a wolf?  Sometimes their disguises are so good that they just blend in with the rest of the sheep.  Looking at Asad’s 1989 Toyota Cressida one would never suspect that anything is hiding underneath all that grocery getter styled sheet metal.  The only part of the exterior that offers a hint to anything dubious are the 17″ Enkei RS-Evolution wheels draped in Hankook Ventus V12 Evo tires.  If you look close enough you might even notice that the car is lowered on Megan Racing Street Coilovers and Volvo 740 front lip.  Did you notice the CXRacing front mount intercooler?  No way, that’s just a shiny radiator, right?  RIGHT!?

Once the hood was popped I couldn’t help but quote Jesse from The Fast and The Furious with his famous line “2JZ no shit!”  I think I may have said this in my head a few times while I was shooting this Cressida (lol).  You can source this motor in cars like the twin turbo Toyota Supra if you don’t know it’s origins.  The JDM Aristo 2JZ-GTE TT is mated to an automatic transmission for that little bit of extra stealth.  Looking around the rest of the interior you will notice the Blitz Dual Turbo Timer with Boost Gauge and that’s about it.

Being a true car enthusiast there was no way Asad could put a stock motor into the Cressida.  Modification began with the Blitz SuperSound Dual Drive BOV, Greddy Boost Cut Controller, and Drift Motion Intake.  Drift Motion also supplied the SS Power Steering line and aluminum JZ Pulley Kit.  Xcessive Manufacturing provided the motor mount base plates and adapter brackets that make this swap possible.  Asad then installed the aforementioned intercooler with CXRacing 2.5″ piping.  Magnaflow got the call to help move the exhaust gasses via a set of their race mufflers and custom 3″ exhaust piping.  The next problem that needed to be dealt with was mating the drive shaft to the rear end.  Houston Drive Train provided a custom one piece drive shaft to make this work.  A MKIII Supra LSD was added along with Beech Performance solid aluminum rear differential bushings to help keep both rear tires in tune.  Is that enough wolf for you?

Asad began collecting, building, and playing with model cars when he was about 8 years old.  His Father used to stop by the Ferrari dealership before they went to prayer when he was 12.  This inspired him to learn about cars and eventually got him wanting to own a car to work on.  9 cars have been a part of Asad’s life to this point.  A 1993 Honda Accord, a 1994 Acura Integra LS, a 2003 Honda Civic, a 1992 Acura Integra LS, a 2003 Sentra SE-R Spec-V, a 2001 Lexus ES300, and a 1999 Honda Civic coupe all make the “used to own” list.  Each of these cars was modded in different ways.  His current stable consists of the Cressida and a 2002 Lexus IS300 that have both seen their fair share of mods as well.  The thing that Asad enjoys the most about his Cressida is the sound and its attention grabbing ability for being such a unique set up.

You can find Asad working at Apple when he isn’t out working on one of his cars.  You may also find him daydreaming about one of his many dream cars which include a McLaren F1, a Ferrari F-40, a Nissan GTR, a BMW M5, and an Acura NSX.  Much to my dismay and/or delight (however you look at these things…lol) he did tell me he was working on picking up that NSX in his dream list.  Asad also enjoys long walks on the beach, candlelight dinners, and a good movie.  Was I supposed to say that?  Seriously, you can usually find him watching movies, working on cars, eating and smoking hookah with friends.

I want to thank Asad for bringing this beauty out of hiding.  I love cars from the late 1980′s so this combination of car and motor has made my list of favorites.  I had a great time and I am looking forward to Asad’s next project.







-AM
Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterEmailLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post. 

Leave a comment
		Posted in Spotlight and tagged 2JZ, Cressida, Drift, toyota, Turbo. Bookmark the permalink.	



 Houston Coffee and Cars September 2011: Shiny Cars! 

Texas Wildfire Donations for Columbus VFD!  



Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 






Categories 
Faces of Our Community (3)

Jose Jiminez Jr. (1)

Local Events (18)

On This Day (3)

Out of Town Spotlight (1)

Shoplight (7)

Spotlight (11)

Taylor Blackwell (1)

The Rambler (6)


AM Tweets
Share this page with your friends and ask them to click like!  <3 http://t.co/HBm45gW 18 hours ago
This is how car guys remember! http://t.co/PkO1sKz 18 hours ago
This Beautiful Subaru Pays Tribute to 9/11! http://t.co/gGyLnsP 22 hours ago
I posted 53 photos on Facebook in the album "Vintage on Enclave 9.9.11" http://t.co/V9bNVb3 2 days ago
Looks like the rest of the month is shaping up to be a great one!  $73 has been raised so far for donations to... http://t.co/diJbSyA 3 days ago

AM Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011

Tags and Tags240sx
access zero
acura
All Team Bash
automodia
camaro
car meet
cars
chevy
classics
cobra
Coffee and Cars
corvette
dancing
dj tito
Dodge
DWS Parts
ferrari
Fit
ford
fundraiser
Girls
Honda
Houston
Imports
Integra
Lamborghini
mitsubishi
muscle
Muscle Cars
mustang
nissan
nsx
parts
people
planet zero
rain
Red
s2000
subaru
sven neer
Team Sunworks
top secret
toyota
Turbo

 

Blog at WordPress.com
       			Theme: Liquorice by Nudge Design.        		


















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






