2009  March | Firefighter Blog
Skip to content

 






 








More Partners

999 Medic
A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Boron Extrication
Brotherhood Instructors
buyfacebookfans1's blog
Command Safety
EMS 12-Lead
EMT to Physician Assistant
Fire and Rescue Concepts, LLC
Fire Daily
Fire Department Training Network
Firefighter Basics
Firefighter Blog
Firefighter Radio
Firehouse Zen
Fire Law
Fire Special Operations
Fire Truck Blog
Green Maltese
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Diaries
Medic Three
Parapup Blog
Pink Warm & Dry
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
SideCharlie.com
South Carolina on Fire
STATter911.com
The Company Officer
The Fire Critic
The Fire PIO
The State of Prehospital/Emergency Care
The Tailboard
Tiger Schmittendorf
Traditional Tactics





 This Blog
 Network
 



 


Firefighter Blog


About
Contact






Archives for 
See all posts in the network tagged with 


PA Firefighter Disgraces the Profession
3 comments






A former “Firefighter of the Year” in Coatesville PA has been arrested on arson charges according to Philly.com.
Robert F. Tracey Jr is the alleged perp. Arsonists are among the most sick and dangerous persons in our society. If this guy is convicted I pray he does hard time for many years. If he is guilty he not only shamed his family and community but his fellow firefighters as well.




Posted by Mike
on 03/24/2009 •
		Filed under: Arson



Three Oakland Police Officers Killed Today
7 comments






Oakland Police Department lost three sergeants today in two separate (but related) gun battles.
The Oakland Tribune has details of the tragedy here.
The three slain sergeants have been identified as Erv Romans, Dan Sakai and Mark Dunakin. A fourth officer was shot and is in critical condition. The fourth officer is John Hege, age 41. All our prayers to Officer Hege.
God rest the souls of the dead officers. May their families find peace in time.
Update: Officer John Hege has died.




Posted by Mike
on 03/22/2009 •
		Filed under: LODD



Is This A Joke?
4 comments






If this is real I will not sign and I know very few who will.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9EglMVfUB74&hl=en&fs=1]
UPDATE: Apparently it is not a joke. As a matter of fact the movement is loosely called the “Obama Revolution”, something I’m not sure is necessary at all.Read about the less than stellar response the kids got here.




Posted by Mike
on 03/21/2009 •
		Filed under: politics



Congressional Contract Busting
1 comment






Congress threw a tantrum today and  sidestepped the Constitution in their zeal to punish TARP recipient AIG.
The object of their affections centered on AIG employee retention bonuses.
Executive bonuses for a few top personnel in the company came to light in recent days. Once the issue became front page news the President teleprompted  to us his outrage, denounced the bonuses and proclaimed the contractually obligated payouts would not stand.
Just as swiftly the senior U.S. Senator from N.Y. Chuckie Schumer went on the air saying if the bonus recipients did not turn back the money they would be taxed the entire amount.
With record speed the House of Representatives worked up a bill that taxes the employees 93% of the bonus amount. The bill is headed for the Senate tomorrow where there is no scheduled committee hearings, just straight to a vote.
We can argue the competence of some of the bonus recipients but that would dismiss the larger issue, these awards or bonuses were contractual.
It looks like we have a government that has no problem running over contract law.
Even larger than the issue of  legislation sponsored contract busting is the witch hunt atmosphere brewing in D.C..
This is state sponsored witch hunting. Watch as this expands to every company that accepted TARP money.
(Bank of America is defending their employees from Government snoops at the moment)
The Democrats have set the stage to review every bonus or reward for service, contractually ordained or not, to be scrutinized by a legislative committee.
The net effect is the best and brightest will avoid working for firms that accept government TARP funds. I think there are more than 250 financial firms that took government money, many actually forced to do so.
Every day in every one of those hundreds of firms bonuses are negotiated, i’s dotted and t’s crossed by attorneys. The only way to be competitive in business is to reward top talent. Ivy League MBA candidates readying for graduation this May are shaking over this. 200K in tuition and a scholastic lifetime of academic achievement for what?
Who would willingly go to work for a company where their work contract can be held up to public scrutiny, possibly putting them in personal danger AND their bonuses are taxed 90%.
How can B of A, Wells Fargo, Citigroup, or J.P Morgan attract the best and brightest when witch hunting interloping politicians are looking over their shoulder?
I am cynical by nature but I don’t want to turn into a conspiratorialist. If I were I would think this is the first shot off the bow towards a full fledged takeover of our financial system and beyond. Numb us now so the pain of nationalized health care will be blunted.
Side note, I was listening to a Columbia University Medical School professor speak on the television the other day saying up to 1/2 of the doctors he knows want to retire, now!
Wonder why? Don’t think past the obvious, they see the nightmare of national health care in the distance. Are we ready to wait 8 hours in line for a chest X-ray?
I’ll quit ranting in a minute…. Let’s agree these AIG bonus recipients don’t deserve the money.  Setting that aside if I was one of these executives I’m dialing up my lawyer tonight.If it took my last dime I would litigate this to the U.S. Supreme Court and quick (before that branch of the government is compromised) and fight the fight our Founding Fathers would expect.
Finally, AIG shipped between $23 billion of the TARP money to foreign banks?  Where is the outrage? I’m not proud of a government that goes out of its way to hurt American citizens yet overlooks taxpayer money going to French and German bankers.
How much of the money headed off our shores is destined for employee bonuses?




Posted by Mike
on 03/19/2009 •
		Filed under: politics



My Email Was Compromised By Chinese Hackers
3 comments






My personal email was hacked and the criminals who subverted my account represent a Chinese based company named —Beijing GLOBSEASON International Trade Co., LTD.–Their hackers entered my GMAIL account somehow and deleted all my contacts after sending everyone on my contact list an advertisement for their business.
Even more amazing they reset my email signature and set my account to “Vacation Setting”.
To all my contacts, casual and otherwise I apologise for any inconvenience caused by email sent to you by these commie criminal thug hacker POS’s.
I hope this two bit hacker loving “Globseason” goes broke and those responsible for hacking my email account spend time at some point in a Chinese gulag.
Here is the email they attached as a signature and sent to all my contacts:
New shopping new life! How are u doing these days?Yesterday I found a web of a large trading company from china,which is an agent of all the well-known digital product factories,and facing to both wholesalers,retailsalers,and personal customer all over the world. They export all kinds of digital products and offer most competitive and reasonable price and high quality goods for our clients,so i think we you make a big profit if we do business with them.And they promise they will provide the best after-sales-service.In my opinion we can make a trial order to test that. Look forward to your early reply!The Web address:  www.globseason…….comE-mail: globseason@188……comMSN : globseason…….@live.cn




Posted by Mike
on 03/15/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Victoria Fires: Satellite Imagery of Affected Towns
Comments Off






The bushfires in Victoria State have subsided and homeowners are already rebuilding.
Twitterer Bushfires points to these satellite images of the towns of Marysville, Kinglake, Kinglake West, Churchill, Flowerdale, Murrindindi and Callingee taken 5 weeks after Black Saturday.




Posted by Mike
on 03/14/2009 •
		Filed under: Australian Bushfires



Tent Towns, First Responders Can/Should Help
4 comments






UPDATE: March 25, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger opens up county fairgrounds to tent city dwellers!                 —————————————-As more Tent Towns, or homeless encampments spring up the greater society will have to pitch in to help our less fortunate neighbors.
The term Shanty Town originated during the Great Depression when unemployed had nowhere else to live. The article above points to the rapid growth of homeless by the swift growth of these makeshift cities.
Have a look at the video below. It’s hard to believe we are at a point where the working class are being forced to tents on the outskirts.
[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jmeHiFZUWtE&hl=en&fs=1]
This situation will get worse before it gets better. Doing nothing is not an option. The “new” homeless cannot organize by blogging or Twittering but those of us that still have a roof over our heads can and should lend a hand.
First things first. Tent City residents need security and proper shelter. They need food, clean water and sanitation facilities. At a minimum they should receive the same attention a welfare mother of three living in section 8 housing receives.
How can first responders help? Police and fire/EMT should patrol these camps daily, maybe hourly. Firefighters can enlist local churches to donate canned goods, toiletries and clothes.
This is not the stereotypical drug addict/drunk/dropout homeless group that generally make up the homeless set. These are the new homeless and will appreciate a cop positioned in a squad car watching out for them.
To any firefighter reading this suggest to your crew tomorrow you take a ride around town and look for your homeless camp. You know you are the ones to do this. Take a look at the video again and ask how you or your department can help. Department leaders distinguish themselves at a time like this.
When it comes down to it most of us are a few paychecks away from Tent Town!
Update #2: It might be a good idea to tap into AmeriCorps NCCC based in Sacramento to assist these homeless citizens. To quote CNBC’s Rick Santelli, “Are you listening President Obama”?




Posted by Mike
on 03/09/2009 •
		Filed under: Uncategorized



Flu
2 comments






My youngest had it first, then oldest with the stomach variety. I got it and it sucks. I did get the Flu shot back in October but we all know that is a 50/50 proposition. I get the shot every year but fortunately I have been Flu free for 10 years or more.
Saturday morning I woke up with severe congestion. I looked around for some antibiotics to self medicate but everything in the medicine cabinet had expired. I don’t have a spleen so I don’t take chances with secondary infections. Spleen less persons are susceptible to bacteria not encountered before they lost their spleen.
Bad news for me, I had to line up at the urgent care clinic. The place was packed and we were all there for the same reason. I waited 2 hours to see the one doctor on duty. She listened to my chest and within 3 minutes I had a prescription and was out of there.
During the 2 hour wait I sat in the outer lobby, not wanting to sit in a germ laden waiting room begging to get whatever else might be crawling around.  While I was waiting I asked the pharmacist wandering the halls what this Flu was all about.
Pharmacists are always more willing to share details doctors avoid and here is what I was told about this Flu.
It starts in the throat, enters the chest in a couple of days.  Half the patients experience gastrointestinal issues in time. The upper respiratory symptoms can last up to 4 weeks. While I was waiting for my meds a young man was quizzing the kind pharmacist about how to hasten recovery. He was told Mucinex, the expectorant not the suppressant.
Day 5 and  I am getting better. Appetite is back and the fever threatening last night did not develop into a sheet drenching nightmare.
I searched Twitter for “Flu” and found others sufferers talking about it.
Google has a great feature for tracking the Flu with Google Flu Trends.
Twitter and Google tell us this bug is widespread.




Posted by Mike
on 03/04/2009 •
		Filed under: Flu, Vanity



Fast Moving Fires Burn Numerous Homes In Texas
2 comments






News from the Chron that fire has claimed up to a dozen homes in drought stricken Texas.
Follow Twitter Search and Google News or InciWeb for updates.
Fire season never really ends. The Interagency Fire Center reports the 2009 year to date totals in the U.S. is 3,140 wildfires and 80,617 acres burned.
Over 5,200,000 acres burned in the U.S. last year.




Posted by Mike
on 03/01/2009 •
		Filed under: 2009 Fire Season

 




 








Twitter @FireBlogger


And the War Goes On… 77 US Troops Wounded in 9-11 Afghan Suicide Attack http://t.co/N2jM5Nw  #Sept11 #9/11 #waronterror 9 hrs ago
Lightning Sparks 40 Wildfires in Sierras, Kern County (Webcam views) http://t.co/2Vbsv5F #CalFire #KernCounty 1 day ago
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY http://t.co/gjm7pRo #9 11 #Sept11 #GroundZero #FDNY 1 day ago
Bastrop Texas Wildfire http://t.co/NSHUc27 Geomac Imagery #bastrop #Texasfires 6 days ago
More updates...
 Posting tweet...
Must See Videos

Blogroll

About.com/Fires
Active Fire Map
Basin Complex Knol
Big Sur Kate
Bravest Home
Cal Cam Links
Cal Fire
Cal Weather Satellite
CalFire Mt Diablo Scanner
California Webcams
CalWebCams
Charlotte Fire Blog
CHP Incident Page
Crowley
Darley Fire Co
Fallen FF Memorial
FamWeb
FDNY Trucks
Fire Chief
Fire Maps (KML)
Fire News Blog
Fire Rescue 1
Fire Service Links
Fire Service Resource
Fire Wives Forum
Firefighter Exchange
Firefighter Hourly
Firefighter Jobs Board
Firehouse.com
FireSafeGarden
Firewhirl
FIRMS Fire Mapping
First on Scene Fire
First Resp. Coalition
Flickr Firefighters
Frederick Schafer Landscapes
Fusee
GeoMAC Fire Mapper
H5N1
Historical ISC 209's
Historical ISC 209's
Hotshot Raleigh
Incident Mgmt Teams
Inciweb
Inciweb (slow servers)
Jason's Fire VLOG
Jody Gomez Photojournalist
JPL Coast Wind
Kitchen Table
Klamath N.F.
KSBW Fire Coverage
KUSP Big Sur Fire
LAFD Blog
Large Fires Map
Lassen N.F.
Los Padres N.F.
Malkin
Mendocino N.F.
MilBlogs
Morning Report
NASA Fire Images
NIIC
Oz Bushfire Report
Plumas N.F.
RAMSDIS
RapidFire (NASA)
Redding.com No.State Fire News
RescueUS
Roanoke Firefighters
Rudy's Firefighters
Saving Our Own
SCWHC
Shasta-Trinity N.F.
Sierra Fire Cams
Sierra N.F.
Sierra Sun Times
Sitting With Fire
Six Rivers N.F.
Stanislaus N.F.
Surcoast.com
Survival Blog
Tahoe N.F.
Troop Support Site
USFirefighters.net
VolunteerFD.org
W.I.S.E.
Whiskeytown N.P.
Wilderness Society
Wildland Fire Hotlist
Xasuan Today (Big Sur)


Wildland Fire Sites

Cal Fire San Diego
Copter Chick
Fire Pirates
Firescaping
FireWise
IMT Center
InciWeb
NIFC
Wildfire Today


Follow on Twitter:




Tags Across Firefighter Blog
2010 fire season
AGW
Arizona
Arson
bark beetle
Basin Complex
Bore Beetle
Cal Fire
climate change
El Nino
Esperanza Fire
Fire
Firefighter Monopoly
Fire Monks
Fire Story
Forest Fire
Four Mile Canyon fire
games
global warming
H1N1
Haiti
hand crews
Indians Fire
Las Conchas Fire
LODD
Old Fire
OnStar
Police
politics
Product Review
Rescue
Rincons
Russian Wildfires
september 11th
Staffing
Swine Flu
Tassajara
Traffic accident
Video
Wallow Fire
Weather
Wildland
wildland fire
wildland fire fatalities
Yosemite





Archives
 Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 
 March 2010 
 February 2010 
 January 2010 
 December 2009 
 November 2009 
 October 2009 
 September 2009 
 August 2009 
 July 2009 
 June 2009 
 May 2009 
 April 2009 
 March 2009 
 February 2009 
 January 2009 
 December 2008 
 November 2008 
 October 2008 
 September 2008 
 August 2008 
 July 2008 
 June 2008 
 May 2008 
 April 2008 
 March 2008 
 February 2008 
 January 2008 
 December 2007 
 November 2007 
 October 2007 
 September 2007 
 August 2007 
 July 2007 
 June 2007 
 May 2007 
 April 2007 
 March 2007 
 February 2007 
 January 2007 
 December 2006 
 October 2006 
 September 2006 
 August 2006 
 July 2006 
 June 2006 
 May 2006 
 April 2006 
 March 2006 
 February 2006 
 January 2006 
 December 2005 
 November 2005 
 October 2005 
 September 2005 
 August 2005 
 July 2005 
 June 2005 
 May 2005 
 April 2005 
 March 2005 
 February 2005 
 January 2005 
 December 2004 
 November 2004 
 October 2004 
 September 2004 
 August 2004 
 May 2004 
 April 2004 


 Recent Posts

Lightning Strikes Spark Fires in Sierras
September 11, 2001 by Tom Dunn FDNY
Austin Texas Fire Chief Vacations as Austin Area Burns
Texas Fires Situation Report
10 Tanker to Texas




Tags Across FireEMSBlogs.com


ambulance
arson
Building construction
Christopher Naum
Collapse
Command Fire Apparatus
County
Dave Statter
destroyed
emergency
EMS
EMS 12-Lead
ems12lead.com
EMT
engine
extrication
fdny
fire
Fire Critic
FireCritic.com
firefighter
firefighters
firefighting
Fires
fire service
Fire Truck Blog
firetruckblog.com
fossilmedic
Glenn Usdin
House Fire
leadership
LODD
Maryland
paramedic
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG blog
rescue
Rhett Fleitz
safety
Sellfiretrucks.com
South Carolina
STATter911.com
tactics
Tom Bouthillet
Training
video 

    This blog is part of the Emergency Services Ad Network. For marketing opportunities, please click here   

FireEMSBlogs.com Community

A Firefighters Own Worst Enemy
Ambulance Driver Files
Ash & Dreams
Backstep Firefighter
Command Safety
Fire Critic
Fire Daily
Fire Geezer
Fire Law
Fire Special Ops
Firefighter Blog
Firehouse Zen
Iron Firemen
Life Under the Lights
Medic 22
Medic Three
Pink Warm & Dry
Prehospital 12-Lead ECG
Raising Ladders
Rescuing Providence
S.A.F.E. Firefighter
South Carolina on Fire
STATter 911
Street Watch
The Company Officer
The Fire PIO
Tiger Schmittendorf









Featured from across Fire/EMS



Greater love hath no man than this…

As we reflect and honor the 10th anniversary of 9 /11  today
John 15:13  Greater love hath no… (more)




Honoring 343 Fallen…

Finally, keep all those firefighters and families in your prayers daily.  Live your life and career… (more)




The Brotherhood of the Fire Service and the…

Each of us has had a journey in our lives in the ten years since that day of September 11th, 2001.… (more)




My 9/11 Story – A Ringside Seat to…

Even hours after the fact, the pilot was still white as a ghost, obviously terribly shaken up. He… (more)









Fire, Rescue & EMS BlogsConnecting the World's Emergency Responders				



Get the RSS FeedFirefighter NationJEMSAdvertise HerePrivacy PolicyTerms of Service 


Contact Us
Get the scoop on hosting your blog or podcast here, site suggestions, questions and technical support.

Advertising & Sponsorships
FireEMSblogs.com is among over 30 fire and EMS Web sites in the Emergency Services Ad Network. Click here to get your company noticed.
 




	© 2009 Elsevier Public Safety and Hosted Bloggers in partnership with Go Forward Media. All rights reserved unless otherwise indicated.				





















