The Path to Quick Career Preparation - Yahoo! Education








Your browser does not support iframe technology. Please try this page in the latest version of either Firefox or Internet Explorer


Home Careers Schools Articles Reference









Articles


Quick Ways To Start A New Career
The Path to Quick Career Preparation
The Path to Quick Career Preparation
The Path to Quick Career Preparation


 Learn which five careers you can prepare for in about two years. By Jennifer Rodgers    Tweet
   Want to go back to school to prepare for a new career but don't want to spend four plus years doing it?  Deciding on the right path can be tough - especially if you're interested in starting a career sooner, rather than later.  The good news is that not all great careers require a bachelor's degree. In fact, there are quite a few options out there that only require a certificate or associate's degree, which could take as little as one to two years to earn. Sound good to you? Keep reading to find out what careers you could potentially prepare for within these timeframes. Career #1 - Dental Assistant  While many dental assistants pick up skills while on the job, the U.S. Department of Labor says that an increasing number enroll in a dental-assisting program to help prepare. Most take one year or less to complete, says the Department.*  General responsibilities: As a dental assistant, you'll often act as the dentist's second pair of hands as you help prepare patients for their dental procedures. You also might assist with obtaining and updating patient dental records.  Average salary: Dental assistants have an annual average income of $34,140.** Find Dental Assisting Programs Now  Career #2 - Paralegal  Want to work in law - without suffering through law school? Look into your paralegal education options. The Department of Labor notes that paralegals generally have an associate's degree in paralegal studies. For career changers with a bachelor's degree in another field, consider earning a certificate in paralegal studies. Associate's degrees can take approximately two years to complete, while certificates generally take about one year to complete.  General responsibilities: In this career, you'll act as a lawyer's right hand man or woman. That's because paralegals heavily assist lawyers with investigating facts, drafting documents and preparing for hearings, trials, and more. Average salary: Paralegals have an annual average income of $49,640. Find Paralegal Programs Now  Career #3 - Medical Records and Health Information Technician  If you want to get into the health care field relatively quickly, consider preparing to pursue medical records and health information technician positions. According to the Department of Labor, most technicians have an associate's degree in health information technology, which generally takes about two years to complete, depending on program and course load.  General responsibilities: Technicians can specialize in areas like coding or cancer registry, says the Department of Labor. Regardless of which area you choose, you'll likely deal more with patient information, like codifying patient's medical information for reimbursement purposes, than you will needles.  Average salary: Medical billing and coding technicians have an annual average income of $35,010. Find Medical Billing and Coding Programs Now  Career #4 - Bookkeeper   Most bookkeepers have at least a high school diploma, and the Department of Labor notes that having some accounting coursework is important. In fact, for some positions, an associate's degree in business or accounting is actually required. These programs generally take about two years to complete, depending on program type and course load.  General responsibilities: If you have a knack for numbers, this could be a great career for you, as you'll probably be updating and maintaining accounting records. You also might calculate expenditures, record transactions, and prepare reports.  Average Salary: Bookkeepers have an average annual income of $35,340. Find Accounting Programs Now  Career #5 - Pharmacy Technician  Another career that doesn't require a bachelor's degree: Pharmacy technician. According to the Department of Labor, employers favor applicants who have formal preparation or a pharmacy technician certificate, which can often be completed in less than one year.  General responsibilities: If you're interested in the health care field, but not so keen about hands-on patient care, this could be a great option for you. As a pharmacy technician, you'll likely prepare prescription medications, provide customer service, and perform administrative duties.  Average salary: Pharmacy technicians have an annual average income of $29,330. Find Pharmacy Technician Programs Now  *All time to completions stated represent the average. Time to completion will vary by school, program, student's level of commitment, and other factors. **All earning potential data is from the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics, May 2010.


















More Articles »Related Articles










Degrees That Hiring Managers Want
Quick Paths To A New Career
Online Degrees - 5 Things to Consider
Job Market to Reboundfor College Grads
How to Land the Career of Your Favorite TV Character
7 Benefits Of Earning A College Degree
6 Careers With Rewarding Average Earning Potential
Best Time To Go Back To School
Switch Careers to Be Happier
How to Prepare for a New CareerWithout Quitting Your Day Job
How To Get The Career You Want
Earning Potential Rises for Class of 2011
Degrees That Employers Want
Is A Career-Focused Degree For You?
5 Tips for Choosing the Right Degree
How To Craft A Successful Career Plan
Breaking Down Your Career Options
Prepare For A Career in a Growing Field
Stable Career Options
5 Degrees Worth the Investment
Careers You Could Prepare For In Two Years or Less
Solo Act Career Options
6 Reasons to Go Back to School
Start a New Career at Any Age
Best Degrees for Career Flexibility
Back-to-School Options for You
Desirable Degrees For Hot Careers
5 Growing Health Care Careers
Best Careers For A Fresh Start
Top 5 In-Demand Degrees
5 Flexible Career Choices
Quick Career Education Programs
Best Degrees to Earn Online
Entry-Level Careers With High Earning Potential
Find Good-Fit Careers for Your Personality
Best Careers for Work-Life Balance
Degrees That Could Lead To Success
Careers For People Who Want To Make An Impact
How To Prepare For The Best Career
Careers For Smart People
One Year To A New Career
Lovable Careers With Great Earning Potential
Want A Career? The Right Degree Could Help
Degrees That Could Get You Noticed
What's The Hottest Career Field?Health Care
Most Satisfying Careers
Degrees That Are Linked To Good Hiring Odds
Hot Careers of the Future
Five Careers That Command Respect
Prepare for a Hot Career in Health Care!
Careers That Could Get You Out of The Office
Most Valuable Degrees
Degrees With High Average Earning Potential
One Year Career Plans
NASCAR Drivers' College Degrees Revealed
Is A Career-Focused Degree For You?
Careers That Are Built To Last
Career Strategies for Women
Careers for Outgoing People
Top Degrees for Making Money
Six Quick-Start Careers
5 Happy Career Options for You
Health Care Career Options for Everyone
Ways to Switch Careers Quickly
The Eight Most Popular Online Degrees
5 Great Reasons to Go Back to School
Quick Ways To Start A New Career
Online Education Advantages
How to speed up a career switch
5 Low-Stress Career Options
5 Degrees Even Busy People Can Earn
How to Prepare for a Flexible Career
In-Demand Degrees
5 Degrees for Thriving Tech Careers
Career Opportunities Grow Along with Apple Inc.
Popular Online Business Degrees
5 College Degrees that Matter to Employers
Best Careers for Take-Charge People
Get on Track to a New Career in Two Years or Less
Dreading Tuesday? Switch to a Satisfying Career
How to Upgrade Your High School Diploma
6 Trending College Degrees Worth Targeting
Great Degrees for Going Back to School
Education Options for Today's Economic Climate
Top Online Degrees for Switching Fields
Education to Revamp Your Career
Are Online Classes Right for You?
Career Makeover Ideas
Want to Turn Your Passion into Your Career?
Careers You Can Be Passionate About
Popular Online Degree Options for You
6 Booming Career Options
Finding Your Work-Life Balance
Career Game Changers
Best Value Degrees
7 Smart Career Options for You
It's Not Too Late for a New Career
Is A Bachelor's Degree Worth It?
Colleges Saying No To Students
Alternatives To A Four-Year Degree
Does Your College Major Matter?
The New "Back To School"
Five Promising Career Paths
Careers with Significant Earning Potential
Find the Fun in Five College Degrees
5 Degrees with Solid Potential
5 Rising Health Care Careers
Top 5 Industries Hiring Now
Business Careers in a Down Economy
5 Careers for Introverts
Higher Education Goes High-Tech
Boredom Bashing Careers
8 Fast-Track Career Options
Skills That Are Always In-Demand
Thriving Careers in High-Growth Industries
Six Ideas for Career Changes
Pro Athletes Get Schooled
Telecommuting Careers
See How You Could Boost Your Earning Potential
Rewarding Careers with an Associate's Degree
Flexible Careers With Great Earning Potential
Recession-Resistant Careers
5 Exciting Careers With Rewarding Earning Potential
Degrees That Could Be Good Investments
Degrees for the Next Decade
Where Will the Careers Be In 2011?
Most Rewarding Degrees
How You Could Get Hired
How To Get America's "Best" Careers
Mythbusters - Career Edition
How to Pick a MajorWith Great Earning Potential
Best Encore Career Options
Careers That Likely Aren't Going Away
Careers for People Who Don't Like People
Great Second-Act Career Options
Best Careers with a Two-Year Degree
Six Degrees With Great Potential
What Would You Change About Your Career?
Careers That Could Make You Happy
Careers That Allow Work-Life Balance
Careers Where Personality Can Prevail
So You Want To Change Careers?
How to Target Your Earning Potential
The Path To A Career with High Earning Potential
Cube-Busting Careers
College Degree Winners and Losers
Most Exciting Careers
Where Have All The Fun Gigs Gone?
New Careers That Are Coming of Age
Benefits of a College Degree:Higher Earning Potential... and Well Being
Thriving (and Dying) Careers
Big City Careers Shifting
Degrees That Could Be Worth It
Careers for TV and Movie Lovers
Careers With Staying Power



























Featured Schools











More Info »



More Info »



More Info »















Advertisement







Find A School











Degree Level


- Choose a Degree Level -
Associates
Bachelors
Masters
Doctorate
Certificate & Diploma


Category


- Choose a Category -
Creative Arts & Design
Fashion & Interior Design
Business
Nursing & Medical Assisting
Health Care & Human Services
Education & Teaching
Technology
Engineering & Technical Trade
Legal
Criminal Justice & Security
Culinary


Program


- Select a Category First -
Photography
Video Game Design
Graphic Design/Multimedia 
Computer Aided Design 
Animation
Film/Video/TV
Music & Audio Production
Web Design & Development
Fashion Merchandising
Fashion Marketing
Fashion Design
Interior Design
International Business
Business Administration
Accounting/Finance
Adminstrative Support
Human Resources
Marketing/Communications
Management
E-Business/E-Commerce
MBA
Operations/Six Sigma
Nursing Assistant
Nursing (ASN, BSN, MSN)
Licensed Nurse (LPN/LVN)
Registered Nurse (RN)
Patient Care & Therapy
Dental Assisting
Medical Assisting
Medical Technician
Phlebotomy
General Nursing/Medical
Medical Billing & Coding
Medical Transcription
Office/Administrative 
Health Care Administration
Massage Therapy & Fitness
Pharmacy
Beauty & Aesthetics
Psychology & Counseling
General Health Services
Special Education
Child Care/Child Education
K-12 Education
Curriculum & Instruction
Teaching Certificate
Education Leadership
Technology Support
Programming & Software
Network Administration
IT & Information Systems
Basic Computer Skills
Computer Science
Database Technology
Automotive/Motorcycle/Marine
Electronics
Aircraft/Aeronautics
Engineering
HVAC
Technical Trade
Paralegal
Legal Studies
Court reporting
Legal Administrative
Legal - General
Criminal Justice
Homeland Security
Police & Law Enforcement
Security Guard
Forensics/Crime Scene
Culinary Arts
Baking & Pastry
Restaurant Management


Classroom Preference


- Select Online or Campus -
Online
Campus
Online and Campus


Zip / Postal
























Home | Careers | Schools | Articles | Reference
Vantage Media LLC  collects the information you provide within this portion of the property.  Please read the Vantage Media, LLC Privacy Policy  for more information.

Yahoo! does not collect or use the information you may provide here. 
Copyright © 2011 Yahoo! Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2011 Vantage Media, LLC. All Rights reserved.
Powered by Vantage Media










