
		Al Jazeera reporter not welcomed at Texas football game | Believe It or Not | a Chron.com blog	










 
 
 

 

 





 










 
 
 
 








Believe It or Not
News and trends from the religious realm with Kate Shellnutt




Larger | Smaller


« Texas Senator pushes for return of Air Force’s Christian ‘just war’ instruction					 | Main | 
					Episcopal Diocese of Texas helps with fire relief » 

Al Jazeera reporter not welcomed at Texas football game

An Al Jazeera reporter from Brazil ended up in the Texas panhandle to report on post-9/11 America. He wrote about how an “obviously furious” high school principal denied him the opportunity to film at a football game.
Gabriel Elizono’s blog entry is titled “Welcome to Texas! Unless you’re Al Jazeera.”
After chronicling about the saga (which the school official corrected and clarified), he ends with this:
I got back in the car, and ponder how interesting it would have been to cut through the red tape of [the principal] and talk to the people at the game. How had 9/11 affected them? Do they feel safer now than they did on September 10, 2001? How would this All American town commemorate the 10 year anniversary?
I unwittingly get my answer to the last question, and I don’t need Mr Lee’s permission on this one.  On a main intersection in Booker a little sign reads: “Gun Show. Sept. 10 – 11. Legion Hall.”
Well, I guess that’s my spin on this whole story.
The implication in Elizono’s story and its coverage on Gawker is that a decade after 9/11, Texans are suspicious of the name Al Jazeera and a bunch of gun-toting xenophobes. Or that they love football so much that they’d only talk to a reporter at a football game and not, say, the parking lot, a local restaurant or anywhere else in town.
I can’t speak to Booker, Texas, but on behalf of Houston—the most diverse city in the American South—I give this notion a great big eye roll.
With the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks a few days away, reporters all over are writing some version of a story about how America has changed since our country’s worst terrorist attack. I’m actually writing one right now.
Everyone I’ve interviewed—from Muslims to Sikhs to Christians—admits that America feels different since the attacks. As reporters, we hope to capture this feeling and show how it affects our communities. For situational reasons, or perhaps his own propensity to fall back on stereotypes, the Al Jazeera visitor wasn’t able to do that.
In 2011, while people across the country (not just Texas!) remain hesitant about immigrants and Muslims in American society, they are growing more tolerant, willing to defend religious freedom and ready to fight discrimination, according to survey results released Tuesday by the Public Religion Research Institute.
From their survey of Americans leading up to the 9/11 anniversary, PRRI found:

More than half of Americans say Muslims are an important part of the religious community in the U.S., compared to 43 percent who disagree.
Nearly 9 in 10 agree that the country was founded on the idea of religious freedom for everyone, even religious groups that are not popular.
A majority of adults believe growing numbers of immigrants strengthen American society.

These trends seem to represent the Texas I know better than Elizono’s experience.





Share

 

Tweet share



Posted by Kate Shellnutt on September 6, 2011 at 2:57 pm | Permalink
|

150 Comments 

						Categories: NewsTags: Al Jazeera, controversy, football, Gawker, Texas 



 

Kate Shellnutt

			Kate Shellnutt is the Houston Chronicle's religion writer and the web producer for HoustonBelief.com.		

Follow: 




Latest Posts:
Episcopal Diocese of Texas helps with fire relief 9/6/11
Lunar Bible up for sale in NASA auction 9/7/11
Houston church services honor 9/11 anniversary 9/7/11
Houston painter joins Ben & Jerry’s 9/11 project 9/8/11
Rev. Billy Graham’s evangelist daughter: 9/11 was our wakeup call 9/9/11




 
 






150 Responses to Al Jazeera reporter not welcomed at Texas football game




Godiva says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:22 pm 
Good for the principal.
Most of us got a crash course in Islam on 9-11 when Muslims attacked us.
And we learned more about Islam as we watched Muslims in the Middle East dance in the streets because thousands of Americans had been murdered.
Yeah, that’s right, stud, we have Gun Shows galore here. You see, we have a right to bear arms and we by God pack heat.
So take your liberal, fabulously hip, incredibly cool self off and don’t come back if you’re going to disdain us and make fun of us. 
This Sunday we are having several First Responders from NYC at our church and all firefighters and police officers are invited, so that we may honor their courage and heroism.


Reply 





The Central Scrutinizer says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:42 pm 
If you mention “Founding Fathers” then I’ll finish my Godiva Bingo card!
Don’t let me down!  C’mon, let’s go!








lab-handler says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:43 pm 
I echo Godiva’s assestment of this situation.  The reporter got exactly what he wanted.  I wonder how many small towns he had to stop at before he found a “negative” spinable story.








Daniel says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:44 pm 
Ignorance loves ignorance…
fyi Al Jazeera network is more news worthy and sticks to the cold hard news more so than any network now in America. Most American News Networks always try to put a spin on things either for ratings or political reasons…
Muslims don’t hate America…. Islamic extremist do… People need to learn this.








John says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:49 pm 
On behalf of all of us actually from NYC, please drop this ridiculous rhetoric.  You do not represent the feelings of the majority.  You want to divide us all even more, but we want to look for common ground and peace. Also, when you say, “when the Muslims attacked us” it makes us cringe.  The Muslims didn’t attack you or your people, they attacked New York and DC.  You got to watch it safely from your house over 1000 miles away. Texans have no right telling us how we should deal with this or what kind of churches or mosques should be built in our City, just as we have no right to tell you how you should deal with your meth, obesity, education, or border problems.








Godiva says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:16 pm 
This IS NOT YOUR PRIVATE WAR, John. 9-11 ISN’T ONLY YOURS.
HOW DARE YOU tell me or anyone else what to say or think about it. 
I actually speak for at least several hundred people that I know of, who watched and wept and stood with my NYC countrymen. 
Because like it or not, JOHN, any part of the USA being attacked AFFECTS ME, as it does us all. 
Friends and relatives joined the military, other friends jumped on buses to get to NYC, we prayed and gave money, sent supplies, wept, etc etc etc.
So JOHN you pout and hate and feel/think the way you do and I’ll feel/think the way I do.








KKs says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:18 pm 
@John:
 How can you honestly believe that Texans were not attacked on 09/11?  They attacked the United States of America, not just NY & DC, that is the most ridiculous comment I have read in a long time.








Godiva says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:20 pm 
Oh and as for the “obesity” remark, John?
I’ll pit my physical health/body up against yours any day of the week.
Mental and emotional health as well.
Aw, boo hoo, Central Scrut, no founding fathers today. I know that spiritual stuff really chaps you, sorry. Really gets to you, doesn’t it.








lurker says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:21 pm 
John wrote: “The Muslims didn’t attack you or your people, they attacked New York and DC.”
What makes you think there were no Texans in NY or DC that day?








AgonyOfSlumber says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:23 pm 
Good lord, Godiva.  I’m so glad I live in a country where my religious freedoms and rights are protected by law from people like you.  YOU can be ignorant and hostile…just keep up the vicious cycle.  I’m sure it’ll make you happy.  
John has the right of it.  End of story.








yt says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:36 pm 
Too bad John didn’t work in one of those towers.








Bob says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:38 pm 
John,
From a fellow New Yorker who was downtown that day – You don’t know what the hell your talking about.  Muslims attacked AMERICA that day.  Never in my life have I felt more connected to the rest of America than that day.  We weren’t Texans or Californians or New Yorkers that day.  We were Americans united against an enemy who wanted to destroy our way of life.  I’m proud that New Yorkers stood at that time to represent what is great about this country but we were Americans first that day.  
You claim to want to unite people and then you separate them and say only New York was attacked and then go on to cast disparaging remarks about Texas.  John, YOU are what is wrong with America.  Godiva is right.  You should just shut the hell up and get out of the way while America remembers this tragedy!








Texan says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:06 pm 
Hey John,last time I checked NY and DC are still part of The United States of America,that means we are all Americans no matter what part of the USA you are in,we are all proud american that look out for one another.And I do not see anywhere it says that Texas is trying to tell you how to run your city.We all suffered on that dreadful day.








TXSFRED says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:55 pm 
@ John ( tha Nu – Yawka) I went through Parris Island with a New York City Senior DI and about 79 guys from Buffalo, Nu Yawk. I will tell you I think that most Grandmas in Buffalo were BAMS, and their offspring are tough. They sit in Snow banks to watch NFL Football naked. I have respect for Buffalo, Nu Yawk… and FDNY and NYPD of 911…The rest of you? .. Not so much. 
But I will point out to you, Nu Yawka, that “500+” Texans have died in the War on Terror that W started to let the people who knocked (your) buildings down out of 4600+… so TEXAS has PAID their tithe to tell you anything we want to tell you, Nu Yawka. Didja Get that Stud Duck? 
By the way,  have you seen that great bumper sticker that says, 
“Welcome to Texas- NOW GO HOME!” 
It was written for you, John. They are still booking flights to Nu Yawk from the Great State of TEXAS – every day. Get on one.








Go Home says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 6:13 pm 
John,
Go home if you don’t like living in the great state of Texas!








The Principal says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:20 pm 
Godiva, you are RIGHT on!!!








Laua says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 9:22 pm 
My husband lost a friend and co-worker at the Pentagon on 9/11. JT, what a perfectly horrible thing to say. People’s feelings and perceptions about 9/11 are intensely personal, and whether you agree with John or not—and I understand where he’s coming from–I feel your comment was reprehensible.








tboyinhouston says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 5:05 am 
What did this guy expect.  Islamophobia is alive and well in America, largely thanks to Fox News and the tea baggers,. a.k.a. teaqeada.








You must be a yankee says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:27 am 
John, this is the yankee attitude that drives southerners crazy. you think you own 9/11. everyone of us were affected by what happenned that day. you do not own it. Our country owns it. Godiva was right with everything he/she said!








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:57 am 
Godiva, you admit you knew nothing before and haven’t learned a thing in the ensuing 10 years. Just what we need.
John, our nation was attacked. How many killed and injured (other than the hijackers) weren’t New Yorkers or even Americans? Some Muslims died, and some Muslims and other non-Christians are buried in our National Cemeteries. Apparrently, many of you don’t know, don’t care, and think their sacrifice in uniform doesn’t count. How “Christian” of you (and yt.)
Shameful. And not surprising in the least.








jarded says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 8:54 am 
Godiva, terrorists attacked the United States.  Stop hating on the entire Islamic religion because a vocal minority went to extreme lengths to show the world their opinions of America, and cited their religion as justification for doing so.  Every Muslim I know personally is peaceful, intelligent, open-minded, and less hypocritical than their Christian counterparts.  Should I judge all Christians based on the Westboro Baptist Church?  I see a group of the vocal minority, whom are very disrespectful, ignorant, and annoying.  That doesn’t make me think that 100% of all other Christians behave the same way.  Use your brain.
This whole Muslim scare phase America is in has to stop.  Religious freedom under our constitution includes Islam.  That doesn’t mean that they are outside of the realm of common law.  For example, if a Muslim in the US murders someone in the name of their religion, they aren’t going to “get away with it.”  They are still held to the same laws you and I are, and will be tried and put away in jail for it.  Same goes for Shariah Law.  If people want to live in this country, they must abide by the laws or answer for their crimes.  There is no “oh, you can’t kill anyone or degrade your own people unless it’s in the name of religion” clause to our constitution.  People have rights, and we must protect them.  That is what America is all about!








Jonathan es de la Marque says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:13 am 
Hey yall , give John a break. He probably being do close to the incident that he may still be tramatized by that day..What we all have to do is love one another..This is the only way towards peace ..America is almost the most  tolerant nation on the planet. We’re certainly the leader..which is why we had to give up some of our ugly past sins …but venting your hostilities at John will not solve the issue… be ye wise as serpents and harmless as doves..should be our motto.. to be wise a s serpent you have to get wisdom..I believe you begin by reading and meditation in proverbs….There are more than six thousand promises in the bible, I am told… and peter says that you partake of the divine nature through these promises..but you cannot partake of that divine nature if you don’t even know and possess those promises..    this is the only way..








Hobie says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:20 am 
Hey I live 15 min from Booker my sister lives in that town and I have something to tell you guys Mr. Lee had every right doing what he did what kind of person shows up out of no where why not call and let someone know your coming and why you are were a small community were not used to any kind of journalist bieng around so for some sorry Muslim extremist journalist to come and flash his clearly Muslim card were goin to be suspicious that’s Just how it is an how it will remain to be until the scars from 9/11 and these wars are gone and as far as the gun show goes i think it’s perfect show of Texas sorry we don’t put up with any crap the rest of these soft hearted forgiving sorry excuses for Americans do so next time you come to out area maybe you should let us know so we don’t just jump to conclusions








Karl says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:55 am 
This thread makes me wish Texas would secede. America doesn’t need the hateful mouthbreathers that infect that state.








txlady says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:40 am 
@Karl
Most of the people in the state of Texas aren’t “hateful mouthbreathers”, as you so eloquently put it.
I don’t know where you are from, but I have traveled to every state in the US except Hawaii, and lived in 10 of them. And I can tell you for a fact that people in Texas are no different than people in any other area of this country. I have met peaceful, kind people in Texas. And I have met hateful bigots in the northeast. I have met slim healthy people in Houston, and fat alcoholic drug users in Southern California.
Apparently, you believe that it is NOT ok to judge an entire religion based on the actions of a few extremists, but that it IS ok to judge an entire state based on the actions of a few residents.








michelle says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:33 pm 
Dear John…my sister in law, a former Houstonian, now a New Yorker, was IN one of those towers.  She got out, and I can tell you, she’d kick your butt herself if she knew you personally.
NY, DC, and wherever that final plane was going when it was downed are all part of the UNITED STATES.
If only YOU were attacked, then only NEW YORKERS and DC citizens should have gotten off their butts and fought in Afghanistan.
But no….others had to fight YOUR BATTLES.  (YOUR being New York and DC  remember?)
Considering OUR people had to die fighting YOUR battles, then damn straight we have a say so in it.
And we may be on the chubby side, but at least OUR city doesn’t smell like pee and you can swim in OUR ocean.








sluggy says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 5:17 pm 
Good for the principal.
Most of us got a crash course in Islam on 9-11 when Muslims attacked us.
And here it is, nearly 10 years later, and you still cling to the Official Government Conspiracy Theory. It’s a very incurious mind you have there, Godiva, and it’s not something to be proud of.
And we learned more about Islam as we watched Muslims in the Middle East dance in the streets because thousands of Americans had been murdered.
You learned nothing! You (and many others) merely had your prejudices confirmed!
Because not only were Muslims dancing that day, it seems (one source among many):
http://theinfounderground.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=5367
And for those that won’t bother to click the link: there is information that a group of Israelis just happened to be in the right area to get a clear view of the Towers, and just happened to be there when the planes crashed into them, and they just happened to have video equipment set up and running in order to document the event.
According to witnesses, these Israelis danced and congratulated each other when the planes hit. Make of that what you will…
Yeah, that’s right, stud, we have Gun Shows galore here. You see, we have a right to bear arms and we by God pack heat.
Perhaps the author was making a point that no special commemorations seemed to be planned for the anniversary. No need to give yourself a case of the Vapors over it, Rambo.
So take your liberal, fabulously hip, incredibly cool self off and don’t come back if you’re going to disdain us and make fun of us.
Looks like you are disdaining and making fun of the author, Godiva. You can’t live by the rules you set for others, can you?
This Sunday we are having several First Responders from NYC at our church and all firefighters and police officers are invited, so that we may honor their courage and heroism.
How nice. Are you going to demand that those NYC folks get the health benefits they deserve, as a result of the toxic substances they were exposed to?
More info here:
http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/6105970/why_did_the_gop_deny_911_first_responders.html
and here:
http://www.mesotheliomasymptoms.com/news/2011/08/11/911-first-responders-cancer-denied-access-27-billion-zadroga-assistance
and here:
http://www.leoaffairs.info/health/SCHUMER%20-%20EXTEND%20DEATH%20BENEFITS%20TO%20FAMILIES%20OF%20FIREFIGHTERS%20AND%20COPS%20-%20080204.htm
==










Bronxboi says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:41 pm 
If you are afraid of Island or Al Jazerra then you are just flat out ignorant and should be sold off for scientific experiments because you are not using their brain.  If people would do some research, they would see that Islam, Christianity and Judaism are surprisingly similar.


Reply 





Godiva says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:21 pm 
Oh BROTHER.








M. Johnson says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:53 pm 
You really have not studied the subject of Islam much, have you? Try it, you will learn that whatever Jesus taught in the New Testament, Mohammed is very substantially against. The biggest problem I see is tolerance of violence and murder, and the belief that God commands Muslims to wage war on non-Muslim lands until they surrender.








Tom says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:51 pm 
John, you seem to revel in victimhood with your “Texas wasn’t attacked, New York was” blather.  Face it, the country was attacked.  Not you.  If you want to extrapolate, you have no right to comment because you weren’t in the buildings when the planes hit.
Oh, and I didn’t realize NY was a drug free paradise.  How many people were shot there this past weekend, wasn’t it like 47?








Ken Jacobs says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 6:13 pm 
@ M Johnson.
I’m sure you’re just a wealth of knowledge when it comes to religious studies. Where did you get your degree? No degree in religious studies then? Sunday school / Fox News doesn’t count.
I would like for anyone who has actually been to an Islamic country to raise your hand in this debate. No one? Ok then. I have been…. to two actually. I’ve been inside a mosque as well. [Gasp!] The problem with M. Johnson and Godiva and the likes is that you can’t draw a distinction between extremism and Islam.
I don’t blame you. You weren’t taught in school or between Dallas reruns. You don’t see how learning about the issue will better your understanding. You’ve got a simplified view on the subject and there is no need for any more information. Dark bearded Muslim = bad. White bearded Jesus = good. You don’t know any Muslims. You’ve probably never been outside the country and even experienced a new culture. The problem with this view is that it just doesn’t stack up. You know that Jesus was Jewish right? You know that the most populous Muslim nation in the world isn’t even Arab right? [It's Indonesia, fyi]
Read a book…. and not one from Glen Beck.








Bronxboi says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:16 pm 
We can always find the differences but if you look at some of the core beliefs they are surprisingly similar.  Such as have only “one God”, Moses as a prophet and Jesus is a prophet of God.  I am catholic but Islam is a religion of peace.  Islam did not take down the World Trade Center fanatics did, learn the difference.








Goldwinger2008 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:07 am 
Liberals CANNOT and WILL NOT abide by the rules of this newspaper OR civility in general. But, that IS the way liberals MUST behave. Everything is EMOTIONALLY based for them.
“Please be civil and respectful. Avoid personal attacks, name-calling, vulgarity, or offensive comments.”








Jonathan es de la Marque says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:19 am 
it that were true then Muslim nations would tolerate conversions to Christ in their territories…but the only Muslim nation which also is secular to tolerate conversions is Syria..   
now why is that??? In Mauritania Muslims are threatened with the death penalty if they convert to Christ..and many other unspeakable atrosities occur in Muslim nations to converts to Christ or just Christians in general..Christians in all those nations live under Jim Crow type laws ..  










w00t says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:41 pm 
God Bless Texas!!!


Reply 





KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:41 am 
You think TX Fred is a “liberal?”










Bronxboi says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:42 pm 
Oops meant Islam not Island


Reply 





starchamber says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:44 pm 
Al Jazeera can’t get into a football game, yet …
When the Muslin Brotherhood consolidates all the countries that they are now seizing, then, they will, with the help of the Nuclear Iran, destroy Israel and seize control of the U.S. and declare Sharia Law.
They need to move quickly as Obama is nearly out of office. It will be a much more difficult task with a Republican running the country.
…
“It seems to me a certainty that the fatalistic teachings of Mohammed and the utter degradation of the Arab women are the outstanding causes for the arrested development of the Arab. He is exactly as he was around the year 700, while we have been developing.”
General George S. Patton Jr.


Reply 





Cort McMurray says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 7:50 pm 
Ah, Patton.  The guy who slapped shell-shocked soldiers and advocated nuking eastern Europe.
The Muslim world produced sophisticated art and architecture, complex literature, poetry and music, and produced advancements in astronomy and mathematics.  
Islam did not create ignorance and oppression in the Muslim world, any more than  Christianity causes ignorance and oppression in Appalachia or Central America.  Political oppression and a lack of education and economic opportunity is the culprit.  Give people freedom and opportunity, and they will thrive, no matter what their religion.








sped6348 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:27 am 
Morning, Cort, please do not forget that Islam children  are taught in madrassas and that madrassas do teach hate – children that are taught hate grow up to be adults that hate.  The current primary target of that hate is the White Satan, the United States of America.








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:37 am 
Right. Because Sunni and Shia, Arab and Persian (not to mentio tribes) agree about such things.
It was a Republican admin that first meddled in Iran aNd installed a dictator, in ’53, and another another one in the 80s that armed Iran and gave Iraq $, ag exports (#1 customer of 2 states), chem precursors, bioweapons straight from the USDA and intel on how to best use them against the Kurds, empowering Saddam.
The same admin opposed the “Prevention of Genocide Act”, introduced by Dems.
By all means, ignore policy and track record and base your vote on…the myth that Rs are so much tougher and unforgiving to sponsors of terror? 
How many examples would you like?










michelle says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:45 pm 
Hey.  He wasn’t a citizen.  He was a pro-muslim reporter wanting to report on the impact of 9/11 to Al Jazeera?  Fairly?  Yeah, sure.
Rubbing our face in it is how that principal received his message..and despite my liberal upbringing, I would agree with that.
Would be hard for me to see it otherwise..esp when my sister in law came THISCLOSE to dying in the WTC that day.
Sorry, Aly Jazz….peddle your propaganda elsewhere.


Reply 





Monty says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:50 pm 
Wish we could see a photo of Elizono’s huge pencil, the one he has in order to connect the dots between a local gun show and the dastardly 9-11 sneak attacks on America. If that articile represents his ‘A’ game, Gabriel will be a loooong time at Al Jeezera.  And good for Godiva, who obviously remembers the programs Al Jeezera aired post sneak attack.


Reply 





KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:38 am 
Do you or Godiva remember the “patriotic” posters here, one of whom said of the 7/4/9 NK missile launch “I hope it heads for the White House” and another 10 or so who laughed and agreed? Do you think those anti-Americans represent us all? Do they represent you? NOT ONE of their fellow Tea Party ilk pointed out to them they were wishing an attack on this country.
They care about a party (that could not care less about them,) not the US.










RJ says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:53 pm 
I agree with what you’re saying, except that there are BAD people of all races, creeds, colors, backgrounds, political persuasions, and those who tote guns.
I support the right to bear arms, but we can’t paint ANY group of people under one large brush as a bad group. And that includes gun owners.
Those that cheered at our calamity will certainly receive their come-uppance soon enough.
Our job as Americans is to represent the ideals of the RED, WHITE, and BLUE to the world, so that they will know that we are the home of the brave and live in the land of the free.
When Americans do stupid things, regardless of who they are, it embarasses  ALL of us.
Let’s not be so smug that we think that we are above mistakes; we should treat people with dignity, and that includes Muslims who are peaceful, law-abiding citizens that love the USA. They did not like the attacks either and there were Muslims who died on that day.
This is how we truly should “not forget” about 9/11. We should move towards a better nation, not one that is fractured by groups of people who think they are better than other groups.


Reply 





sped6348 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:32 pm 
When Legal Immigrants come to the USA and assimilate, they are accepted.  It is when they desire to be Foreign Citizens permanently residing in the USA that problems are encountered.  If they do NOT want to be US Citizens and live as US Citizens, they should not come to the USA.








Josef says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:22 pm 
Thanks RJ










TexasFred says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:54 pm 
I learned all I need to know about Islam, and it’s followers, on Sept. 11, 2001, and way more than I wanted to know by their actions since… 
Not talk to an al-Jazeera reporter? Oh the shame… (/sarcasm)
Why waste time talking to an al-Jazeera reporter when you KNOW that no matter what you say, it WILL be distorted and Muslims are still going to HATE YOU if you don’t submit TO Islam and pay Jizya tax…


Reply 





Robert says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:55 pm 
Gabriel Elizono, I’ve got an excellent idea of an article for you to research and print if you have the guts.  How about an in-depth article about the extreme intolerance of the Muslim religion?


Reply 





Goldwinger2008 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:16 am 
ROTFLMAO! Oh yeah! Like THAT’S going to EVER happen! LOL!
The purpose of this blog is to keep up the drumbeat attack on conservative America and Americans. That’s why The Chronicle LOVES Kate.
Thanks for the chuckle.








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:54 am 
He could write one about the extreme intolerance and embarrasing ignorance of some posters in this thread who want people to “go home”, are clueless as to what “conservative” means and would find themselves in prison, if not on Death Row, if they followed the bible literally.










JamesP says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 3:59 pm 
Wouldn’t it have been better to allow the reporter in?  He expected a bunch of intolerant rednecks and that’s what he got. I’m sure the reporter would have found some way to spin the story to make the people look bad, but they made it too easy for him.  Note to all hicks: Al Jazeera is a news agency based in Qatar.  Al Qaeda is a terrorist group.  They are not the same.  You don’t have to like Al Jazeera, but they are a legitimate news agency.
Thanks Godiva for ruining another thread with your screed.


Reply 





Godiva says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:26 pm 
Thanks Godiva for ruining another thread with your screed.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
I ruined another thread with my screed?
Wow!
Thank you for giving me all that power, dude.








You must be a yankee says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:44 am 
aljazeera is a racist new source. everything they say and do are pro muslim. they are just like the chron who spins the liberal philosophy or the naacp who only advance colored people. just another racist organization.








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:08 pm 
He could write one about the extreme intolerance and embarrasing ignorance of some posters in this thread who want people to “go home”, are clueless as to what “conservative” means and would find themselves in prison, if not on Death Row, if they followed the bible literally.
Yt wishing somone had died and the “get out” posts from the usual “conservative” suspects – evidence of rampant liberalism.










Gerald Herbel says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:01 pm 
After reading this article:
http://news.yahoo.com/blogs/cutline/al-jazeera-journalist-not-allowed-film-texas-high-155955677.html
I don’t see how one can deduce that “…. “obviously furious” high school principal…”   Possibly cold or insensitive.
Seems “quite obvious” to me that the author of this chron.com blog fits quite well into ‘shoots first and ask questions later’ category!


Reply 





Hank says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:02 pm 
I don’t believe the results of that survey for a minute.  What is WRONG with this country is DIVERSITY.  I am not saying that we all have to be the same color or race; but, I am saying that we all have to share the same culture or it want be the United States of America.  You have to have a common identity.


Reply 





sped6348 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:20 pm 
Right on, Hank, Islam is a form of Government with an accompanying Religion.  Because of this they have a pre-set living structure and have no desire to assimilate.  Muslims do not become US Citizens per se – They are Islam Citizens residing in the USA.








cll003 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:28 pm 
Very well said, but unfortunately, I think we have too many idiots and pushovers running our nation now for this misguided love of diversity to be reversed. 
There was an excellent article the Chronicle ran a few months ago in which religious leaders of all faiths came out and said religious diversity is ridiculous. To ask a Muslim to accept a Christian’s beliefs (or vice versa) is essentially to ask him to denounce his own since the two are inherently incompatible. If one or the other didn’t believe his own religion to be the one true religion, what would be the point of following it?








madman says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:29 pm 
@Hank: You have to have a common identity.
Like in Little Italy? Or on St Patrick’s Day? Or are all those white identities all okay but all the other ones — like Mexican Americans celebrating Cinco de Mayo, African Americans celebrating Juneteenth — umm, verboten?
I celebrate diversity. It doesn’t frighten me. It strengthens our nation and makes it more interesting.










Keegan Knittle says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:04 pm 
Why was the Chronicle’s religion reporter assigned to a story about a reporter from Al Jazeera?  Also, based on the name Gebriel Elizono, the reporter in question is most likely a Christian…


Reply 





KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:48 pm 
Does James Yee sound like it can’t possibly be a Christian name? Do you know who he is? Do you know Kate is a blogger, not a reporter, there is a difference which includes choosing one’s topics.










JSW says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:08 pm 
Hey John, it wasn’t just NYC that was attacked on 9-11.  People from all over America and around the world died in those attacks.  Others were killed that day in Washington DC and Pennsylvania.  It was (and is) an American  tragedy and we will not forget.


Reply 





sped6348 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:11 pm 
Good for the principal.  
There are enough politics in education and high school football already – The viewpoint of the Islam foreign government through Al Jazeera is truly not needed.


Reply 





madman says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:19 pm 
Yeah, right, this kind of thing is so unheard of in Texas. That’s why we must look so suspiciously at Chronicle reporting of articles like this one:
http://www.chron.com/life/houston-belief/article/Not-Ground-Zero-but-Katy-mosque-also-stirs-1717134.php
And we’ll also overlook all the redneck comments already added to this article — no problems here, especially among our overabundance of fundagelical churches. Keep rolling your eyes, Kate. Easier than dealing with all the stomach-churning comments and actions arising from ignorance and irrational hatred… if there was any of that in Texas or America.


Reply 





Kim says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:21 pm 
Um…let’s see….who here really cares what the reporter from al-jazeera and the people who read/watch his reports think about, well, anything?


Reply 





girlie_girl2 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:32 pm 
Al Jazeera is a good source for international news and they also employ reporters from around the world. They are not all Muslims. A former marine is among their employees.,










TheWorldsFavoriteMexican says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:24 pm 
He should have gone to Jeffery’s El Dorado TX for that all white American response.


Reply 





Jrod says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:26 pm 
“I can’t speak to Booker, Texas, but on behalf of Houston—the most diverse city in the American South—I give this notion a great big eye roll.”
Yet after reading the comments on here (and every other article) in this soooooo diverse and modern city, we don’t sound much different than Booker, Texas, do we?


Reply 





MrOldMan says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:40 pm 
Our reputation as bumpkins remains untarnished.


Reply 





Goldwinger2008 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:17 am 
You, of course, are speaking for yourself.








Godiva says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 8:28 am 
Dearest, Texas sets the standard for the rest of the nation.
We are not bumpkins. You aren’t, I’m not, none of us are bumpkins.










itsmetres says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:40 pm 
As an American, I am curious as to the thoughts of those in Pakistan, Afghanistan and so forth on their feelings on the 10th anniversery of 9-11, I bet that one of our reporters doesnt get as warm a welcome as this guy did. Maybe we could even send a woman to go check on thier tolerance of women doing a job other then housewife/slave.


Reply 





worldlyman says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:32 pm 
Well, itsmetres, let’s recall that our very own US government has taken great measure in ASSEMBLING, TRAINING and SUPPLYING these radical Islamists.
Look at who we supported in Afghanistan back in the late 1970s and 80s. The USA supported these radical Islamists so that they could take out a Kabul government that supported women’s rights, modernization of the rural areas and eradication of opium.   
Look at who we support now in Libya.  Those “rebels” are nothing more than Al-Qaeda retreads.
Yep.  Our good old American cruise missiles and attack helicopters take out the SECULAR leaders of Muslim countries who dare use alternate currency instead of the dollar for oil. “Democracy” and “terrorism.”  They use that so that blind sheeple can blindly support Big Oil, Inc. and their Pentagon-backed adventures around the world!
So what exactly did the Afghans, Iraqis and Libyans EVER DO TO YOU or ME? Huh?








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:13 pm 
He could write one about the extreme intolerance and embarrasing ignorance of some posters in this thread who want people to “go home”, are clueless as to what “conservative” means and would find themselves in prison, if not on Death Row, if they followed the bible literally.
Yt wishing somone had died and the “get out” posts from the usual “conservative” suspects – evidence of rampant liberalism. 
Yes, TX sets the standard for teen pregnancy, low graduation rate, science-phobic school curriculum…










dd says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:46 pm 
Texans are suspicious of the name Al Jazeera and a bunch of gun-toting xenophobes.
====
It’s ironic that this article spawned the comments that suggest exactly that and more.


Reply 





pdh42 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:50 pm 
bronxboi, you have no clue to what you wrote about…. Islam and Christianity are in no way similar…. For you to say that shows your true ignoance about each…. To say Islam and Judaism is the same shows even more your ignorance about them and about religion…. You might want to actually study one of them or all of them, before you try to compare them one to another….


Reply 





David says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:59 pm 
I am going out on a limb with this one.  Christianity, Judaism and Islam ARE vastly different, but I think, and I may be wrong, Bronxboi was referring to all three of these religions as all worshiping the same God.  Judaism came first, followed by Christianity then Islam.










SUX_2BU says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 4:55 pm 
If you support a secessionist governor who wants no part of the United States, then you can’t claim that “we” were attacked.  Your privilege of calling yourself a real American should be revoked.


Reply 





Jopa says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 9:49 am 
Perry never said he wanted Texas to part ways with the US.  Do some research before you spout off what CNBC told you to think.  He made a comment that there are some in Texas that feel that way, but he does not think it is a good idea. Some of you people are so sheepy….just like when SNL did the skit about Palin being able to see Russia from her back yard..and people like you think that Palin actually said it.  Laughable how gullable people like you are. Stop getting your political insight from David Letterman and Bill Maher…idiot.










kejo says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:11 pm 
if he wanted to find the stereotypical racism, white christian supremacy, and dim-witted backward country bumpkins, he only needed to come to the comment section.


Reply 





Elena says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:41 pm 
Dear god. Aljazeera did what any channel would do. If CNN got the tapes, they would’ve aired them first. And when AJ aired them, all the news outlets followed and reaired them. So stop being so damn ignorant










Danbo says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:13 pm 
Al Jazeera gave voice to terrorists, enough said. Without Al Jazeera giving them a voice, they’d lose power.


Reply 





KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:17 pm 
Which is of course why al-Jaz was kicked out of nations for their pro-US slant in war coverage? No one told you?










marvin says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:29 pm 
Bigotry and discrimination.
Sadly, it is still pretty common in this state.


Reply 





Dean Plaza says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 5:31 pm 
Al Jazeera is a propaganda network for the middle east. They are the Rev. Al Sharpton of the black community, they never want peace. Why the heck they’re even allowed in the US is beyond me. They spew hatred of the great country.


Reply 





Cort McMurray says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 7:56 pm 
No, that’s ridiculous.  Al Jazeera is the CNN of the Middle East.  They aren’t a propaganda machine; they aren’t Fox News.
America is a great country because we encourage the voice of the Other, the outsider, the dissenter.  Pluralism — the notion that we can tolerate all sorts of dissenting opinions and still see ourselves as united and strong — is what makes us great, not fear mongering and misrepresenting people we’re too ignorant to understand.








Jonathan es de la Marque says: 

			September 9, 2011 at 9:15 am 
Good on you Cort, wishing most Americans could see and understand as you do.










DustOfLife says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 6:14 pm 
Ms Kate Shellnutt mentioned a ‘good looking’ poll from the Public Religion Research Institute; what she neglected to mention is that the Public Religion Research Institute is a progressive organization, which means once again, it’s proven again that while numbers don’t lie, statistics (and reporters like her) do!


Reply 





Art Vandeley says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 6:34 pm 
AL Jezeera is a mouthpiece for radical muslims screaming hate and intolerance.  Now they are acting like main stream cable news.  Yea, good luck with that.  We’re not buying it.


Reply 





Elena says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:43 pm 
No one cares what you’re buying. fact is aljazeera is a well known, well respected news organization. whether you like it or not.










2rottendogs says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 6:51 pm 
Every story Al Jazeera does always has an anti American spin to it.  Can you really blame people for not wanting them around?


Reply 





Jonathan es de la Marque says: 

			September 9, 2011 at 9:21 am 
Well, you had the chance to change their minds, but instead you only reinforced their negative opinion.  Also you reinforced the idea in yourselves that they can never be reached…Hmmm way to go! For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom.   










Sean says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 6:52 pm 
Schools don’t–and shouldn’t–allow anyone and everyone to roam their campus. This guy may not have been a threat–his depiction of the situation–but in this post-Columbine, post-9/11 era, we have to allow for school officials and parents to be overly protective of their kids. Being vigilant after something dangerous happens is stupid. Being vigilant before, in this case, is merely politically incorrect. Get over it.


Reply 





OIF VET says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 7:24 pm 
The same Al Jazeera that fueled anti-coalition hostilities and caused more of our men and women to die in Iraq. Sounds like they are still up to their games, fanning flames right here in America. Sickening.


Reply 





candace says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 7:39 pm 
Painting all muslims with the same brush is just as stupid, hateful and ignornant as saying that only New Yorkers were affected by 9/11. Are there any rational people left after 9/11?  That’t the real story.


Reply 





The Civic Architect says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 11:30 pm 
Great point.  99.99% of Muslims are good, upstanding people who want the same things we all want: freedom, peace, the chance at prosperity.  There’s a tiny minority of extremists who want us all dead.
.
As someone who’s lived in Europe, I’ve noticed something else: the distinction between American and European Islamophobia.  American Islamophobia post 9-11 is primarily based in anger over that event.  It’s almost understandable (though not excusable), given the magnitude of what happened. European Islamophobia is far more insidious, because it’s long term, and you can’t point to a single, horrifying attack to explain it.  It’s kind of like the racism faced by Latinos here in the US, but far more intense and far-reaching.
.
I hope Gabriel Elizono (or someone else at Al Jazeera) puts the stories from Texas in context.








sped6348 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:22 am 
Unfortunately, candace, Muslims in the US have two strikes against them because Islam is NOT just a religion, it is a government with a built-in religion.  Sharia Law, part of the Islam Government as established by Koran may become a major problem in the USA – it is already a problem in England.
http://pajamasmedia.com/tatler/2011/04/30/sharia-law-in-the-united-states/
The U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri, Richard Callahan, assured Muslims on April 29th that “the Obama Administration would likely step in on behalf of Sharia law should any state try to ban it.” 
Shiria Law Problems in England:
http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2011/jun/09/sharia-law-bill
Andrew Brownguardian.co.uk, Thursday 9 June 2011 18.47 BST
“Caroline Cox’s bill to limit the influence of sharia law.
“Lady Cox’s bill does not involve changing the existing law very much  …  passing oneself off as an adjudicator, which is to be punishable by five years in prison … statutory duty for police officers, civil servants, and so on to tell women about their rights under existing anti-discrimination law.”
“The main thrust … arbitration tribunals are only enforceable in civil disputes: not in family law or criminal law …  some judgments made by sharia courts will be enforced by the British state …”








Jopa says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 9:53 am 
The problem with that statement comes down to math. We are not talking about a few people. With the total population of Muslims over 1 Billion people, even the 99.99% (but more like 97%) of peaceful people, that leaves a lot of people hell bent on destroying our way of life…and they are recruiting more people every day..here in the US.








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:36 pm 
Sped, you didn’t read or understand the article on PJ, you obviously know next-to-nothing about how our judicial sytem works, the article was practically a fabrication. Considering the source is a Tea Party site using the BRITISH SPELLING of “tattler” (the irony) I’m hardly surprised. 
Can you even explain it in your own words?










candace says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 7:40 pm 
yes I know its spelled ignorant.  sorry about the extra (n)


Reply 





BrainDeadLiberals says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 7:52 pm 
Al Jazeera = MSNBC in English.


Reply 





lulzorz says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 4:44 pm 
MSNBC is already in english.










Gabriel says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:06 pm 
“These trends seem to represent the Texas I know better than Elizono’s experience.”
Unfortunately your comments thread seems to disagree with you.
By the way, anyone who distrusts Al Jazeera is welcome to watch it streaming online at http://english.aljazeera.net/watch_now/  As I type it right now they’re covering the FIFA qualifiers, but they cover a wide range of worldwide news stories.
Here’s a series of reports about the heroism of US combat medics in Afghanistan, which, yes indeed, aired on Al Jazeera:
http://youtu.be/TNC_4lZ07gU
http://youtu.be/G4vbajh-b_s
http://youtu.be/kKHVCASh6ME


Reply 





Craig says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:16 pm 
Ha, all the anti-muslim comments on this story contradicts the author’s assertion that Texas is a tolerant place.   Perhaps the author, and others like her, need to re-evaluate her audience.


Reply 





NE Prince says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:27 pm 
I think what John meant was that Texans must not use attack on NY as an excuse to justify deeply rooted bigotry and racism in the Southern culture. 9/11 should make us appreciate our freedoms even more. It should not be used as a platform to reignite the fire of bigotry which would be demeaning to the collective sacrifices of all Americans. Why do you guys always need someone to hate?


Reply 





Txdesign says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:38 pm 
>>Most of us got a crash course in Islam on 9-11 when Muslims attacked us.<<
Really, the act of 20 Muslim EXTREMISTS defines the entire culture and religion for you. That's scary! I was born in Germany does that automatically make me a Nazi. What if someone saw pictures of KKK rallies with hoods and burning crosses for the first time and came to the conclusion that this defines Americans.


Reply 





Cathy says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 8:45 pm 
Al Jazeera (translated) Hate America and Americans.
Actually, I think the reporter should thank the principal because I’m sure that principal saved that reporter from getting his *^^ jumped.


Reply 





KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:58 pm 
That what you would have done? Committed a felony assault at a school event based on your ignorance and bigotry? Which would have been eligible for hate crimes enhancement? You think that’s what this nation is about? Disgraceful.










strengthof10 says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 9:07 pm 
Gee, Kate, considering the responses above I can’t recall a time when you have been more wrong. But, what the heck, even I made a mistake . . . once.


Reply 





Ralph W says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 9:22 pm 
This is very unfortunate. Al Jazeera give us a much more balanced view of the forgotten world, especially the Muslim world, than we get from most other sources. But Booker isn’t a bad village either. They, at least some, even have a sense of humor. There was, likely still is a sign on the highway, “Booker, Next Seven Exits”.


Reply 





Jamesrick says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 9:32 pm 
So…who cares???


Reply 





El Machete says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 9:34 pm 
I watched Al Jazeera when I was deployed to Afghanistan.  I felt that this news agency was “fair and balanced” and reported news.  Unlike Fox News whose Republican reporters not only report the news, but make sure all the viewers know the Republican side of the story.


Reply 





Jopa says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 9:54 am 
You probably think that CNBC is fair and balanced as well.










Bob says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 9:52 pm 
This is a reporter working for Al Jezeera news which happens to support every single terrorist act against the United States and the rest of the world. He’s lucky they didn’t use him as a tackling dummy.


Reply 





The Civic Architect says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 10:16 pm 
Jamie Oliver (“Food Revolution”) got the same reaction from the Los Angeles Unified School District.  In Oliver’s case, it was really infurating, because he wanted to expose the schools’ lousy food so that he could improve it.  It was a noble effort.
.
I don’t think Gabriel Elizono’s goal was nearly as noble.  From what I can tell, he just wanted to do a story about how backwards Texans are.  If they had allowed him to film, he’d probably have done the same story – but with footage of a handful of people saying not-so-nice things about Muslims.


Reply 





Texas Rino says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 10:44 pm 
As usual with story’s like this the chron reporter failed to provide the statement from the prinicpal. Simply linking to it is not enough. The prinicpal stated he was given no notice that the reporter just showed up at the game. The reporter was told the proper process and he refused to follow it. Irresponsible reporting at its finest. High school football games are school events no different than a class room, why would an reporter just show up and think they would be given full access?  This is not even a story but a successful attempt to gain clicks.


Reply 





P Smith says: 

			September 6, 2011 at 11:34 pm 
Those who hate Al Jazeera on name alone are ignorant and wilfully stupid.  It is as “extremist” as CNN or the BBC.  If you want to know what extremism and lies on TV look like, go watch FOX “news”…then again, the educationally bereft and mentally challenged already do.  
For those who want to demonstrate that they’re not mouth breathers, go read the Al Jazeera website and its content.  Their reporting is actually objective, and their editorial policy is hated as much by extremists in Iran and Saudi Arabia as it is by Texas rednecks.
http://english.aljazeera.net/
I wonder how much the objection of the principal had to do with the reporter being a Latin American.  If he’s Brazilian, he’s undoubtedly catholic, which is probably another reason that an extremist protestant christian would object to his presence.  I’m surprised the reporter wasn’t assaulted.
.


Reply 





Jopa says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:02 am 
What I worry about are people like Anwar al-Awlaki.  Right after 9/11, this guy was portrayed as main stream speaker for the peaceful Muslims in the USA, but look at him now. He is one of the most wanted men in the world.  It is people like this that make it hard not to keep an eye on the Muslim world. There is over 1 billion Muslims in the world. Even a small % (let’s say 3%) of extremists, still represents a large number of people that want to harm Western civilization. The Al-J reporter needs to stop looking for this kind of story, and go interview those a hole islamists in New York that stand on the corner in Time Square yelling anti-american chants and ask them Why?


Reply 





Jopa says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 9:57 am 
Crickets…










Kevin In Austin says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 2:03 am 
Wow, I am amazed by the remarks on this.  However not suprised.  I have worked with people of Muslim faith both in the business sector.
Personally, I think there are idiots, zealots, fringe folks, and let’s face it morons in every race, religion and culture.  I have been on business flights with a Muslim whom I work with who 1. dresses and assimilates to American customs, 2. speaks perfect English yet basically knows when we travel to a trade show his name suddenly becomes “random bag check”.  
He doesn’t complain and in fact says, hey, I don’t blame them there are nuts from my country.  At the same time, he realizes there are nutty Americans as well, which I agree, should also be checked.
I guess my point is, if I have one, is that yes 9/11 was simply horrific…so was the Holocaust, so was genicide in South Africa, Bosnia, etc.  Does that mean we should judge all people of a race or religion the same or collectively?  
I don’t think that stories like those of Oscar Schindler, Hotel Rwanda are not the only acts of humanity but simply the only ones we are fortunate enough to hear.  I think that it is simply ridiculous to judge all people of one sect, race, religion collectively all as one.  
But again, just one guy’s opinion as after 9/11 I was one of the first ones to wear a flag pin, say kill em all, etc.  I guess maybe I just started to think about the Muslims, Catholics, Jews, Baptists, etc. that all died together during those terrible attacks.


Reply 





Paul says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 2:31 am 
That would be like the BBC being banned.   Their troops did kill our boys by the 1000s…..back in the day… 230 plus years ago…


Reply 





KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 2:10 pm 
And the “Freedom Fries” fools are so ignorant of American history they don’t know there wouldn’t be a USA w/o French men an materiel during the Revolution. They also boycotted France b/c they didn’ take 1 min to find out they were helping us in OEF.
That’s who we’re dealing with here. Fake “patriots,” American-born, who have zero knowledge of history and even less curiousity. Couldn’t pass the citizenship test if their lives depended on it – and proud of it.








KLH says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 2:14 pm 
And the “Freedom Fries” fools are so ignorant of American history they don’t know there wouldn’t be a USA w/o French men an materiel during the Revolution. They also boycotted France b/c they didn’t take 1 min to find out they were helping us in OEF.
That’s who we’re dealing with here. Fake “patriots,” American-born, who have zero knowledge of history and even less curiousity. Couldn’t pass the citizenship test if their lives depended on it – and proud of it.










Canama says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 6:48 am 
I was going to say that he misjudged us, but after reading these comments I’d say this guy’s assessment of Texans was pretty spot-on.


Reply 





sped6348 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:05 am 
Al Jazeera was developed for broadcasting to Islamic States where the Law is Sharia.  Special Al Jazeera programs designed to attract ‘other’ listeners is not the Islamic leaning broadcasts we normally see on Al Jazeera where the people are exalted and delighted at any misfortune the USA suffers. 
The USA is not a theocracy – we are a ‘Federated Republic’ – its operation is similar to a Democracy.  If the Sharia Law that does not contravene US law is practiced by Moslems solely within their ‘church’ there should be no problem.  It is when Islam seeks to replace US Law with Sharia Law that problems exist and cannot be tolerated.  It is Sharia Law that is used by Terrorist to further Terrorism and cultivate jihadist. 
“… Oklahoma passed a referendum banning state courts from considering international or Islamic law … Now more than a dozen states are considering similar measures, including Arizona, Indiana and Texas …” (*1)
:
“The U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri, Richard Callahan, assured Muslims on April 29th that “the Obama Administration would likely step in on behalf of Sharia law should any state try to ban it.” (*2)
*1.  http://www.npr.org/2011/03/11/134458058/States-Move-To-Ban-Islamic-Sharia-Law
*2.  http://pajamasmedia.com/tatler/2011/04/30/sharia-law-in-the-united-states/


Reply 





Elena says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:51 pm 
@sped6348 “Al Jazeera was developed for broadcasting to Islamic States where the Law is Sharia.”
so how many islamic states practice sharia law?










1389AD says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:28 am 
Islam has always called itself a religion, but it is not one.
Islam is an expansionist, enemy, totalitarian political ideology that seeks to obliterate everything other than itself. It is more like an early form of Nazism. 
For that reason, we must exclude it from any Constitutional or other legal protection for religions, because it is not one.


Reply 





Canama says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:58 pm 
Godwin’s Law!










SaltWaterCroc says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 7:39 am 
If you want to see how xenophobic some Texans have become, just read the comments on articles here in the Chronicle.  Immigrants, Muslims, etc are the source of all of our problems, whether it is the budget, health insurance, schools, cost of food, truckers on our roads, you name it.  A lot of these folks need to take a 3 month “vacation” to a third world country as a volunteer, spend some time with the people who live in pretty dire conditions, and they might start to understand what their neighbors on this planet have to do to survive.  But then, that would be a Christian thing to do.


Reply 





Cynthia says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:53 pm 
My grandmother had some horror stories from her mother about the days when the evil IRISH were going to turn everyone in America Catholic after they were weakened from some insidious disease-of-the-week smuggled over in steerage. Does anyone else remember tales about how the Pope was going to run the country after JFK was elected? 
Muslims are like the current dangerous dog of the decade – in the 60′s, my friends & I stayed out all day in the summer, watched over by a pit bull who let me paint his nails.  Hysteria ruled the morning one of the neighborhood moms saw someone move in with a *gasp* GERMAN SHEPHERD!!










Apatheist says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:35 am 
Kate Shellnutt wrote: “After chronicling about the saga (which the school official corrected and clarified)”. Ms. Shellnutt, this is a mere matter of he-said, she-said. How could you be so confident that the school official was the correct party?
Reading the blogs and the comments just confirmed my belief that hatred and bigotry are alive and well, whether it is Texas, New York City, or Syria.
Maybe we should ban religions. Or tax them, at least.


Reply 





Tod says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 10:35 am 
Kate,  it is very easy to sit and write your report without any effort into seeking truth isn’t it?  I’ll bet that you have all the credentials you need to identify who you are and who you work for as you do your 9-11 report won’t you? This man only had a business card to I’d who he worked for!! You didn’t know tgat did you? If I present you with a business card saying I work for playboy, would you be willing totake some pictures without checking me out better?  Let me know, I can have them made in a couple days!!!!  He was also asked to not film the game because not all parents could be asked for permission for film of their children playing football to be shown overseas to other countries!!!!  There was also zero notice that he was coming to interview anyone, not even a phone call in advance to check out who he really is.  Is that what you call “good journalism”?  Your eye roll shows that you might be in the same caliber of journalist as this foreign man that expects open arms even though his station (not religion) is very well know by all of us that love this country, and hate the propaganda against us, as an enemy to the UNITED STATES of AMERICA. Some of the rest of the story that you failed to check into is that there were some very big issues that were being delt with at the time concerning safety of some other students, which takes priority over the film crew, and the man was denied permission to film, but asked to stay and enjoy the game. He was to be found later in the game by school officials to go over what he wanted after they had resolved other issues that were present before he “showed up”! When the officials went to find him, he had left!   I for one stand up and thank these school officials for protecting the privacy and well being of the children in this community in which it happened.  And for others on this blog, I was a full time firefighter/paramedic, on duty on 9-11-01 in a TEXAS city!  They did not only attack NYC and DC!  They attacked us all!


Reply 





DukeLaw says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:48 am 
Tod,
I suggest a reading comprehension class…..Kate was actually supporting your viewpoing.
But she’s probably rolling her eyes over the hate/vitriol in this thread.  Not that she should be surprised.








sped6348 says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 2:06 pm 
Right on, Tod, excellent post.










tim o says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:50 am 
Too bad that school principal doesn’t work at the White House?


Reply 





USA Proud says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 11:59 am 
I didn’t know it was OBLIGATORY to speak to the press….any press.  IDIOT!!


Reply 





NotFromThere says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 12:14 pm 
…And this is why Texas can secede all it wants, no one will put up a fight, no one will care.  And why the last thing The World needs is another Texan in Washington.


Reply 





Ridge says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:56 pm 
Can we stop talking about this already?  Who cares?  What do these people expect, for us to roll out a red carpet for them?  We are told as a matter of vigilence to report anything suspicous.  I don’t know about everyone else, but the fact that Al Jazeera wants to send a report to a high school football game in Texas is the very definition of suspicious activity.  What is the motive, to make suspicious people out to look like bigots?  That’s the only motive uncovered here in my opinion.


Reply 





Elena says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 1:58 pm 
Dear god! Some ignorant people only know Al Jazeera from Rumsfeld and Faux News, and yet keep yapping like they have a clue.
I dare you to just look 5 minutes on their website and 5 minutes on their online stream. I dare you to show me the “anti-americanism”.
website: http://www.aljazeera.com
9/11 section: http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/spotlight/the911decade/
online streaming: http://english.aljazeera.net/watch_now/


Reply 





C-man says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 2:47 pm 
Al-Jazeera does NOT equal Al-Queda.  The principal comes across as ignorant.


Reply 





PayAttention says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 3:43 pm 
The Principle is a bafoon.  He is a fool and a bad educator.  Yes, the Unites States was attacked by Arabs. Blacks were enslaved by Whites, Jews were tortured by Spanish Christians. A reporter from a news service did not attack us.  Only a mindless bigot can justify blind hatred of anything that sounds Arabic as being righteous in light of the fact that the US was once attacked by someone else who was also Arabic. 
We wonder why High School graduates have few critical thinking skilss, and all we need to do is look at their educatinal leadership.


Reply 





Sheikh.Yerbouti says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 4:10 pm 
10 years later and all we’ve learned is how to perpetuate fear – fear masked in anger, hurt, sorrow, frustration, ignorance, confusion.
When will we learn that just because something is written in a book does not mean we are compelled to follow it literally and that we have both the capacity and the responsibility to question it?
When will we learn that the actions of a few are not enough to give us insight into the cultures of mass millions?
When will we learn to listen, really listen, and not simply wait for a pause in the conversation to impose our opinions?
When will we learn that it is O.K. to have our way of life, but that there are equally valid ways to live that do not duplicate our ways of life?
When will we learn that just because something is written in a book, does not mean that it speaks definitively, without exception, for whole classes of people?
When will we learn how to overcome our fear?


Reply 





Get Along says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 4:41 pm 
Judging by all the snarling, foamy-mouthed comments – it looks like the terrorists have won.


Reply 





Chris Hutto says: 

			September 7, 2011 at 5:54 pm 
So Kate Shellnut, I am sorry to say I told you so, but you wishing that we in Texas and across America are better than what Elizondo reported, well, you are sadly mistaken. If you have made it down to this comment, heck even after the first one, you have seen with your own eyes the blind hatred and fear of any religion other than the beholder’s.
So the next time someone tells you that Texas, and indeed small town Texas, can be dominated by hate filled ignorant (not stupid) folks, don’t be so quick to roll your eyes.
Thank you and have a great day!


Reply 





Juan Doe says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 9:25 am 
What a story I bet this reporter would have unearthed! 
Just the other day I was thinking to myself: “Hmm, I wonder how people in South Waziristan feel about the new gay marriage bill in New York?” One big eye roll, indeed. This “reporter” is fishing for confirmation bias with a Texas sized gun.


Reply 





Daryl says: 

			September 8, 2011 at 11:07 am 
Kate,
I am from Houston, and agree with you that the city’s diversity is a testament of modern America. Also having family in East Texas, having gone to college in West Texas and spent time in Austin, Texas is culturally diverse from region to region, and Houston is not a representative sample of Texas. Although I love both, no legitimate conclusions on Texas could be gathered by observing Houston.
The defensive comments to this article show that negative press on Texas is met with strong aggression, exemplifying the opposite of what we both have to come to expect of Texans. That substantiates the possibility of Gabriel’s account holding some water, to our mutual disappointment.
The goal of Gabriel’s trip is precisely a study of national sentiment. He is travelling across the US to get stories on how 9/11 affected a great number of people. It is sloppy journalism not to discover that, or to assume the situation was misconstrued to sully Texas’ reputation. Your comment in passing that the story was misconstrued to fulfill a stereotype misidentifies his purpose and (ironically) shows your preconceptions of an Al Jazeera reporter.
I’m disappointed in your story, and hope for more substantial work in the future.


Reply 



Pingback: When Falls the Coliseum » Why did a Texas high school eject an Al Jazeera reporter from a football game? The real story exposed!




L. MARTIN says: 

			September 9, 2011 at 2:56 pm 
Way to go!  Hail the principal!! Except I would have done one more thing – make an announcement over the loud speaker that the reporter was there and then watch the crowd march the idiot into the town square for a good ol’ town square whuppin’ like they did in the good, ol’ Texas towns!!  PROUD TO BE A TEXAN!!!


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  














Search for:



 




Posts | 
					Comments

Log in





 
 
 
 


Talking Tolerancewith Jill Carroll


A Pentecostal Perspective with Rev. Ken Gurley


Believe It or Not with Kate Shellnutt


The Emmaus Road with Kristan Doerfler


Iconia: Wherever faith meets art with Menachem Wecker


Some Views from a Jew with Rabbi Amy Weiss


A Humanist Contemplative with minister D.T. Strain


Lutherantwith Rev. Charles St-Onge


Young American Muslimwith Wardah Khalid

More…

HoustonBelief on Twitter 

Categories 
Atheism

Baha'i

Belief this week

Buddhism

Catholicism

Christianity

Christmas Day bomb plot

Education

Entertainment

Ethics & Morality

First Amendment

General

Haiti earthquake

Helping out

Hinduism

Humanism

Interfaith

Islam

Judaism

Kate says

Lent

Lutheranism

Mormonism

News

Oil spill

Presbyterianism

President Obama

Rick Perry

Somewhat silly

Spirituality

Sports

Study says

Technology




 
 
 



Archives

 ▼ 2011 (271)
		
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011


 ► 2010 (332)
		
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010


 ► 2009 (24)
		
December 2009
November 2009



















