Texas awaits word on FEMA fire funding | KXAN.com







Newsletters
About Us
 
Full Site
News
Images
The Web
 






  




News


Local
Williamson Co
Texas
National
Politics
Crime
Business
Investigations
Strange
Consumers
News Team
Weather


Alerts
7 Day Forecast
Currents
Hour by Hour
Local Webcams
Radar
Satellite
SatRad
Severe Weather
Weather Blogs
Traffic
Sports


Longhorns
High School
NCAA Football
NCAA Hoops
MLB
NFL
Auto Racing
Sports Blogs
Investigations
Health
Video
Community


Participate
Calendar
Dining
Living Green
Obituaries
XtheTXT
Entertainment


Photo
TV Schedule
NBC on Demand
The CW Austin
Blogs


Photo Video
Politics
Sports
Weather
onPolitix
Marketplace


Real Estate
Austin Experts
Austin Health


Home : News : Texas : 













Video
Photo









Fire crews work to put out a Garfield blaze (Chris Nelson/KXAN)

Regular Photo Size













Latest News



Biggest air assault yet set for blazeFirefighters are planning their biggest aerial assault yet on …



Fire survivors vow to help othersSome Bastrop County families who returned home Thursday found …



Help for wildfire pets in BastropA temporary shelter/clinic has been set up to treat pets …



Decomposed body found in New BraunfelsHuman remains were found next to a truck that belonged to a man…




More Stories »





Advertisement







Texas awaits word on FEMA fire fundingPerry wants Major Disaster DeclarationUpdated: Thursday, 08 Sep 2011, 7:21 PM CDTPublished : Thursday, 08 Sep 2011, 6:47 PM CDT
Josh Hinkle 

AUSTIN (KXAN) - Over the course of more than a decade, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has given Texas $3.8 billion dollars for disaster recovery. But Texans might have to wait a while for word on new funding in the midst of one of the most dangerous wildfire seasons in the state's history. “We will go and survey the damage along typically in a vehicle or on foot to look at the homes and the destruction,” FEMA's Ericka Lopez explained about the lengthy process. FEMA's on the ground now as the central Texas wildfires wind down. As firefighters finish up and people return to what is left of their homes, crews will count up the cost. So far this year, President Barack Obama's administration approved 52 fire management assistance grants for Texas through FEMA. It is money that helps fire departments recoup some of their costs. But Obama's would-be presidential opponent, Gov. Rick Perry, is holding out for something bigger - something he requested before but didn't fully receive. “I full well expect the federal government to come in to do their part,” he said Tuesday after an aerial tour of central Texas wildfires. It is called a Major Disaster Declaration. Perry's request for one in April was denied then after an appeal partially approved this summer. Now, the state is once again asking for the full scope of what the federal government can offer - long-term money, manpower, and equipment from the federal government. “In addition to the federal help already being provided to cover up to 75% of firefighting costs, a Major Disaster Declaration could make available federal funds to assist in replacing damaged public facilities and some help directly to families, who have suffered these terrible fire losses, including assistance for temporary housing and some rebuilding costs not covered by homeowners insurance,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas. Obama has not approved it yet, and FEMA said it first needs to determine how much Texas needs. That system worked its way into the GOP presidential debate last night – Perry's first as a candidate. “Gov. Perry is just back from the wildfires,” moderator and NBC anchor Brian Williams pointed out. Other candidates like Herman Cain and Rep. Ron Paul, R-Texas, mulled over the federal agency and whether it is helping states in the best way possible. “Well, what happened before 1979?” Paul asked. “We didn't have FEMA.” “Don't eliminate FEMA,” said Cain. “Let's fix FEMA.” As Congress squabbles over how much money the agency should have for disasters, Texans continue to watch more than 50 wildfires burn across the state. In the meantime, FEMA suggests homeowners take some very important steps even before they know if that money will come through:  Call your insurance company. Take photos of any damage. Save all of your receipts.   



     Report an inappropriate comment.   






















Latest News



Biggest air assault yet set for blaze


Fire survivors vow to help others


Help for wildfire pets in Bastrop


Decomposed body found in New Braunfels


Texas awaits word on FEMA fire funding





Texas sizzles in hottest summer ever


Perry, Romney jab job creation records


Guard choppers step up water drops


Neighbor loses his home, not his faith


Fire crews put out flames in Garfield











More Stories »






























Email This


Print This


View Story on a Single Page














Advertisement

















Most Popular Stories



Latest wildfire information


Kids say thank you with hand-made notes


Bastrop Complex fire takes 1,386 homes


Bastrop County fire information


Bastrop home list confirms worst fears






More Stories »






Advertisement









 Site Tools RSS Feeds Weather Alerts Text Alerts Newsletters Twitter Facebook Mobile / iPhone KXAN iPulse News Widget 









Advertisement    























News
Weather
Traffic
Sports
Investigations
Health
Video
Community
Entertainment
Blogs
onPolitix
Marketplace


FCC 388 Digital File
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
EEO Public File Report
LIN InteractiveAll content © Copyright 2000 - 2011 LIN Television of Texas, LP. All Rights Reserved.












