NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among...        Can Anderson Cooper embed with the daytime audience? (...        The Texas Health Care System        Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever        Obama jobs bill would lower unemployment if not blocked...        Have a Good Life, Fido; Hope the ‘Gators Don’t Get...          22 Shia Pilgrims Shot Dead in Iraq        Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov,...        Federal US judge dismisses lawsuit requesting...        Why do women prefer to marry men with the lowest-...        President Obama has Ten Million Twitter Followers;...        Larry The Clever Kid........ Funny!          Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by...        Bob on Books: The Safehouse by T. Thomas...        Novak Djokovic beats Rafael Nadal to win the US Open...        Saleh authorizing his deputy to sign the Arab Gulf...        Miss Philippines crowned as Miss Universe third runner-...        Fifty MPs to be Sacked (Video)              NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte    Banī Walīd :  Libya
|
Sep 12, 2011
 
By TajdarHaider            8 0      
Views: 114
       Libya's National Transitional Council (NTC) forces say they have gathered on the outskirts of Bani Walid and Sirte, the fugitive Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi's last strongholds.The revolutionary forces defeated resistance from forces loyal to the Libyan dictator in Bani Walid and have made their way towards Sirte, Gaddafi's birthplace. “Our mission is not to capture Bani Walid, it is to block the town and attack Sirte,” the revolutionary intelligence officer Noraldien Elmaiel said Sunday. Several fighters have been killed and over a dozen have been injured in skirmishes with Gaddafi supporters in the area. The fighting continued one day after the NTC Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil arrived in the Libyan capital of Tripoli to take the helm of the interim government. Earlier, revolutionary fighters said they cleared a nearby village from pro-Gaddafi forces while loyalists to the elusive dictator have reportedly killed over a dozen guards outside an oil refinery near the town of Ras Lanuf. This comes as Sa'adi, one of Gaddafi's sons, has fled to neighboring Niger. Niger's Justice Minister Marou Amadou said on Sunday that Sa'adi Gaddafi has arrived in the country and was heading to the capital Niamey. Also on Saturday, reports revealed that a convoy of armored vehicles carrying a number of Libyan generals had arrived in Niger via the northern Nigerien town of Agadez a few weeks ago. The generals then entered Burkina FasoBurkina Faso after performing a financial transaction at a bank in the Nigerien capital, the report said. However, the whereabouts of the dictator himself, his son Saif al-Islam, and former intelligence chief Abdullah al-Senussi still remain unknown. Guinea Bissau's Prime Minister Carlos Gomes Junior has announced that Gaddafi would be welcomed in his country "with open arms.”         1 of 43        
File photo shows a convoy of hundreds of armed vehicles belonging to revolutionary fighters.
     
TajdarHaider is based in Karāchi, Sind, Pakistan,
and is Reporter for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  United States of America (42.2%) Canada (16.9%) Pakistan (12.0%) Poland (7.2%) 11 other countries (16.9%)           READ MORE: forces, Libya, force, Bani, Niger, Gaddafi   More News From: Banī Walīd :  Libya      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 6            Reply  Posted By     Danish Malik
|
about 22 hours
ago
  
Good Job Really appreciate your work keep it rated up :)
            Reply  Posted By     Ruby1204
|
about 21 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing the news. Rates up
            Reply  Posted By     GoharAli
|
about 7 hours
ago
  
nice reporting.... tnx for sharing.. rated up
            Reply  Posted By     AmberCornelio
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
Good, informative reporting; I’ve rated up your report!
            Reply  Posted By     HumTum
|
about 4 hours
ago
  
well written report,keep it up dear,thanks for sharing,rated up
            Reply  Posted By     Ranasafdaralikhan
|
about 3 hours
ago
  
Thanks for sharing this well written report.Rated up
                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Muammar Gaddafi vows We Will Not Hand Libya To Colonialism ( New Video)... By: saleh1966      Fugitive leader Muammar Gaddafi has issued an audio message which was read on Syria's al-Rai TV on Monday, accused rebels fighters of surrendering the oil-rich country to foreign occupiers. Muammar Gaddafi said his forces “will never let imperialist states take over” the North African country. "We will not be ruled after were the ...  about 5 hours ago     Libya Tensions between NTC, Loyalist Forces and Islamic Factions ... By: mikefreeman       
Dated 12th September 21.00 hours
The whereabouts of Muammar Al Qathafi is still a mystery with conflicting stories coming from the BBC, French, Italian, US and Middle East media and it is hard to sort the truth from the propaganda.
Propaganda is most of what we have had so far with reports of the rebels sweeping in to Libya and liberati...  about 16 hours ago     Saadi Gaddafi arrives in Niger By: mohamedabdelfattah      The Minister of Justice in Niger The son of Libyan leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, Saadi, came to Niger and his motorcade headed from the city of Agadez in the capital Niamey.
The official Nigerian, Adamu Maru, in a press conference said that Saadi arrived to the territory of Niger on a convoy of nine people heading to the capital of Niger.  "...  about 23 hours ago     Qadhafi son flees to Niger, fighting flares in Libya By: SyedBakhtawar       
TRIPOLI: Moamer Qadhafi’s son Saadi has fled to Niger, an official said, as Libya’s new regime promised an interim government in 10 days and fighting flared at one of the deposed leader’s remaining strongholds.
“Today, September 11, a patrol of the Nigerien armed forces intercepted a convoy in which was found one ...  1 day ago     Col Qaddafi's Son 'Flees' to Niger By: khattar      Another one goes, two to go. Col Qaddafi's another son Saadi Qaddafi has fled Libya and has entered Niger. His convoy of about nine vehicles is moviny towards the Niger Capital, Niamey.
Niger has confirmed the reports and despite recognising NTC as the legitimate government of Libya has said that they have allowed Col Qaddafi's family to enter ...  1 day ago     New Libya government within 10 days: NTC official By: eessa2      A new transitional government will be formed in Libya within 10 days, the deputy chief of the National Transitional Council told reporters on Sunday."A new government will be formed within one week to ten days," said Mahmud Jibril, who serves as the "prime minister" of the NTC, the political wing of the rebellion that overthrew strongman Moamer ...  1 day ago     Clashes as fighters mass at Gaddafi strongholds By: izabel      NEAR BANI WALID - Former rebel fighters clashed on Sunday with
pro-Moamer Gaddafi forces at the oasis town of Bani Walid and were
closing in on Sirte, poised for all-out assaults on the fallen leader's
remaining strongholds.
Medics said at least
two fighters were killed and 12 wounded in the skirmishes on the
outskirts of Bani Walid, near to ...  1 day ago     Clashes flare at Kadhafi strongholds, son in Niger. By: alic10      Former rebels clashed on Sunday with pro-Moamer Kadhafi forces at Bani
Walid and were closing in on Sirte, poised for all-out attacks on his
final bastions, as one of his sons arrived in Niger.The deputy
head of the National Transitional Council (NTC), meanwhile, told
reporters in Tripoli that a new transitional government will be formed
...  1 day ago     NTC fighters mass for assault on Gaddafi strongholds By: SyedBakhtawar      NEAR BANI WALID - Fighters backing Libya's new rulers fought their way Sunday to the gates of Bani Walid and were closing in on Sirte, poised for all-out assaults on deposed leader Muammar Gaddafi's remaining strongholds.
Interim leader Mustafa Abdel Jalil Saturday gave the green light for attacks on Bani Walid, southeast of Tripoli, ...  1 day ago     Chief of Libyan Ex-Rebels in Tripoli; “Stray Dogs,” Says Gaddafi ... By: nazfatima36       
Mustafa Abdul-Jalil, the head of the ex-rebels’ National Transitional Council, arrived in Tripoli on Saturday, NPR reports. A faded red carpet was rolled out for him and hundreds of officers in suits and fighters rushed to greet him, says Al J  1 day ago     NORTH Bani Walid, Libya : More fighters joined the fight on Sunday to ... By: kingston23      Gaddafi's
troops fired mortars and rockets that contained local rebels trying to
enter from the north at Bani Walid, located about 150 kilometers
southeast of Tripoli.Dozens of
uniformed soldiers and experienced fighters from the National Transition
Council (NTC, for its acronym in English) provided reinforcements to
his comrades, who ...  1 day ago     Insurgents concentrated assault weapons.  By: lethibichlan      
Chairman of the National Transition (NTC) in Libya Mustafa Abdel Jalil on 10 / 9 declared campaign to attack in order to decide on a large scale in the town that the forces loyal to leader Muammar Gaddafi is just sand, after the deadline the government is for the gunmen in the town on passing down their arms. Mr. Jalil is currently ...  1 day ago     Gaddafi Urges Loyalists To Take Arms And Fight On By: saleh1966      On Saturday night, a radio station in Bani Walid rebroadcast Gaddafi's last recording, in which he urged his loyalists to rise up and fight, saying "This is the zero hour."
"Shame on you if you don't fight. If you don't fight, you will go to hell," he said in the message, which was repeatedly replayed on the station.
NATO announced that new ...  1 day ago     NTC chairman arrives in Tripoli By: YawarNaqvi      Libyan National Transitional Council (NTC) Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil has arrived in Tripoli as the new Libyan government winds down the process of moving its headquarters from the eastern city of Benghazi to the Libyan capital.Abdel Jalil landed at an Air Force base on the outskirts of Tripoli on Saturday and was greeted by a boisterous red ...  2 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Gaddafi son given refuge in Niger  
BBC
 One of the sons of fugitive Libyan leader Col Muammar Gaddafi has been given refuge in neighbouring Niger. Saadi Gaddafi had been let into Niger on humanitarian grounds and was due in its capital Niamey later, said Niger's Justice Minister Marou...    Libya holdout towns in focus; Gaddafi son flees  
GMA News
 Libya's new rulers said they were holding back an assault on one of the last bastions loyal to Muammar Gaddafi but were edging towards the ousted ruler's birthplace of Sirte. Southern neighbour Niger said on Sunday one of the fugitive former leader's...    Gadhafi Forces Kill 15 NTC Forces in Coastal City  
Voice of America
 Fighters with Libya's National Transitional Council say forces loyal to former Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi have killed at least 15 guards in an attack outside a key oil refinery in the coastal city of Ras Lanuf. Provisional authority forces say...    Gaddafi forces attack Libyan oil facility  
Al Jazeera
 33 Forces loyal to Muammar Gaddafi have killed at least 15 guards and injured two others in an attack on an oil facility outside the coastal town of Ras Lanuf, fighters of Libya's National Transitional Council (NTC) have said.    Fierce fight in key Libyan town  
BBC
 Seven anti-Gaddafi fighters have been killed and 10 wounded in a fierce battle for the town of Bani Walid. The fighters say they were betrayed by local people who claimed to be on their side and led them into an ambush. Nato is targeting the town,...    Gaddafi`s son Al-Saadi flees to Niger: Official!  
Zee News
 Official Niamey: A convoy carrying ousted Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi's son Al-Saadi has crossed into neighbouring Niger, a spokesman for Niger's government said on Sunday, one of the highest-profile former regime figure to flee to the landlocked...   More Related Stories     Images    >         NTC forces close in on Bani ...    NTC forces close in on Bani ... Image Source: allvoices File photo shows a convoy of hundreds of armed vehicles belonging to ...        Rebels closed in on Sirte from ...    Rebels closed in on Sirte from ... Image Source: www.afp.com Rebels closed in on Sirte from the west and east        An anti-Gaddafi fighter with a ...    An anti-Gaddafi fighter with a ... Image Source: www.reuters.com An anti-Gaddafi fighter with a weapon waits in the outskirts of the town of ...        Anti-Gaddafi fighters pass by ...    Anti-Gaddafi fighters pass by ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Anti-Gaddafi fighters pass by at the last checkpoint to enter the town of ...        A convoy from the ousted ...    A convoy from the ousted ... Image Source: www.afp.com A convoy from the ousted regime fled across Libya's southern border with ...        Negotiations over Bani Walid ...    Negotiations over Bani Walid ... Image Source: www.afp.com Negotiations over Bani Walid have been hailed a success by rebel leaders      More Related Images    More From Banī Walīd          Phe Gadhafi suddenly fierce counterattack         Clashes as fighters mass at Gaddafi strongholds        Clashes flare at Kadhafi strongholds, son in Niger.        Libyan rebels attack Bani Walid           NORTH Bani Walid, Libya : More fighters joined the fight on Sunday to capture a desert city         LIBYA, NOW WHAT?        Gaddafi Urges Loyalists To Take Arms And Fight On        Final battle underway for key Gaddafi bastion          The rebels say Gaddafi 's two children are fighting in the city of Bani Walid        Rebels prepare attack on Gadhafi strongholds after deadline expires        In Bani Walid negotiations fail with Libya         Qaddafi's rebel attack last pockets of resistance           Libya: NATO launches air strikes in Bani Walid                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10312839          Cartoons of The Day             Palestinian State          Ten Years After            Ten Years Later          US Open    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Top 5 Miss Universe 2011 Annouces By: nielica_01
| about 8 hours ago
      Last Lokomotiv Yaroslavl Team Member, Alexander Galimov, Dies By: ljvujadinovic
| about 16 hours ago
      New England vs Miami live score and highlights on Monday Night ... By: richwebnews
| about 12 hours ago
      Remembering The Courageous, 9/11 Rescue Dogs Saluted by Charlotte ... By: BMcPherson
| about 17 hours ago
      Alexander Sizov flight attendant, were seriously injured in the crash ... By: saadkhan
| about 19 hours ago
      Whistleblower alleges widespread sex abuse among Florida officials By: itobin53
| about 16 hours ago
      Pipeline explosion kills 120 people in Kenya  By: kingston23
| about 17 hours ago
      Mitch Winehouse: Amy Thought She Would Live Forever By: ljvujadinovic
| about 10 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     Sharply increase in prices of basic food items ultimately increasing ... By: muhammedashfaque
| about 23 hours ago
      A Woman We Love:Carla Gugino in Esquire Magazine By: MasalaReporter
| about 16 hours ago
      Russia Rejects More UN Pressure on Syria By: Ruby1204
| about 18 hours ago
      Muslims - Christians Clashes in Indonesia leave 5 Dead 80 Injured By: Ruby1204
| about 21 hours ago
      Oakland Museum of Children's Art cancels Exhibit of Gaza Kids'Art By: northsunm32
| about 19 hours ago
      UN Pledges Aid for Pakistan Flood Victims By: Ruby1204
| about 22 hours ago
      Spartacus actor Andy Whitfield dies! By: AmberCornelio
| about 5 hours ago
      NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte By: TajdarHaider
| about 22 hours ago
      Blast at French Nuclear Plant Claims One Life, No Leaks Reported By: Ruby1204
| about 23 hours ago
      Govt urges political parties to help flood victims By: Ammaduddin
| about 12 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 44       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 9       Images: 43       Comments: 6    6       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10312839), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10312839 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10312839 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “NTC forces close in on Bani Walid, Sirte” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10312839-ntc-forces-close-in-on-bani-walid-sirte.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         