Clarewood Apartments - powered by FeedBurner
&



Clarewood Apartments

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Clarewood Apartments delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Great Locations to grab Pie near San Marcos


Posted: 2011-09-12 18:38:43 UTC
Purchase a delicious pie at one of these locations near San Marcos.
If you have any experience in the culinary profession then you know that cooking is an art. Since cooking is an art form that transitions from one generation to the next, one dish that was popular a decade ago can be pushed to the wayside in the following decade. One such dish that this has happened to is the classic pie. With the resurgence of cupcakes and handheld desserts; pies have been neglected and oftentimes forgotten. Lets take the initiative to reinvigorate the reputation of pie by highlighting two great places to find pie near San Marcos, TX.
If you are looking for some good, ole fashion homemade pie then the Texas Pie Company is the bakery for you. The bakery, located in Kyle, sells numerous baked goods, pies and casseroles. A few of the many pie flavors offered at the bakery include fruit & pecan pies, various fruit pies, coconut, key lime, chocolate and coconut macaroon. The bakery is open every day other than Sunday, and pies tend to cost roughly $14.
Wimberley Pie Company is a great spot to grab a slice pie or an entire dish. The bakery offers a selection of seasonal pies, classic fruit pies and creative pies such as Chocolate Chip Pecan and Toll House. Wimberely Pie Company also prepares a number of cookies, cakes and cheese cakes baked daily. Wimberley Pie Co. is located in the city it received its name from, Wimberley, and the bakery takes orders by e-mail if you do not want to do the commute.
Next time you get the hankering for a big piece of pie; visit one of these great bakeries near San Marcos. Purchasing a pie from one of these great bakeries would be a great way to unwind with some amazing comfort food after dinner.

     






3 Ways to Help Victims of the Central Texas Wildfire


Posted: 2011-09-08 14:52:16 UTC
Check out these easy ways to help victims of the Central Texas wildfire.
Residents of San Marcos know of the danger posed by the wildfires tearing across much of Central Texas. With a few wildfires nearby, residents of San Marcos are well aware of the danger posed by this unpredictable natural phenomenon. Firefighters have recently reported that the fires are nearly contained, but families as well as the men and women fighting the blaze are still in need of basic supplies. Donating and supporting the victims of the wildfires is a great way to show your support as a Texan and American.
Here are a few simple ways that you and your family can help victims of the Central Texas Wildfires:

The American Red Cross of Central Texas has erected shelters in Bastrop, Smithville and many other communities around Central Texas. The organization is sheltering and feeding families left homeless by the wildfire, and is currently in need of simple donations to fund their efforts. To donate to the Red Cross of Central Texas, visit the organization online at  http://www.centex.redcross.org/.
Lutheran Social Services Disaster Relief has been working in conjunction with the Red Cross and other organizations to provide shelter and long-term assistance to lower-income families affected by the wildfire. Currently, Lutheran Social Services is requesting donations to help fund their disaster relief efforts. The quickest and easiest way to help is to donate online at http://www.lsss.org/disaster-response.
Local Boy Scout Troops are currently collecting donations to help families whose houses were destroyed due to the wildfire. Troops around Austin and San Marcos are collecting routine household items such as lightly worn clothing, water, toothpaste, toiletries and commonly used household items. To find a troop taking donations near you, follow this link: http://www.bsacac.org/firerelief.

The Central Texas wildfire has destroyed hundreds of houses and left countless people displaced, but Texans are resilient and will rebuild once the fires are squelched. Until the fires are finally gone, support your neighbors by donating or volunteering for one of these great organizations.

     






Hiking Locations around San Marcos


Posted: 2011-09-06 13:19:51 UTC
Escape the house this weekend at one of these great hiking trails in San Marcos.
One of the key factors to living a long and productive life is to remain physically active. Taking the time to go to the gym, or spend time outdoors, will help relieve stress, lower free radicals, maintain weight and boost your metabolism. An easy way to become active is to go on a hike over the weekend. Hiking is an easy activity that many people can do with family, friends or on their own. Here are some great locations to go hiking in San Marcos.
Purgatory Creek Natural Area is 9-acres of semi-developed parkland west of Clarewood Apartments. The semi-developed natural area has roughly three miles of paved and unpaved trails that course through beautiful forest and some wetlands. For novice hikers, there is a mile stretch of accessible, crushed limestone trail with maps located in a kiosk. The easiest access point to the trail can be found at 1414 Prospect Street.
Roughly five-miles from Clarewood is Ringtail Ridge Natural Area. The forty-acres of lightly developed parkland used to be ranch land, but it has been converted into a nature area. The park has half a mile of accessible trail as well as two miles of unmarked loop trails through forest and grasslands.
Schulle Canyon Natural Area was once owned by the John Cox family before it was passed on to the state as a nature preserve. The twenty-one acres of undeveloped parkland has a half-mile of 6-foot wide gravel trails used by hikers and mountain bikers. Hikers can also find under a mile of natural surface trails extending to Sierra Circle and the rear of Highcrest Apartments.
Get out of the house and immerse yourself in nature at one of these great hiking trails in San Marcos. Each trail offers you the chance to get away from the suburban life for a day outside with family or friends.

     






Learn how to cook in-season Vegetables at ‘Flavors of Autumn’


Posted: 2011-09-01 12:11:51 UTC
Learn how to use all of the flavors of fall at Flavors of Autumn.
It might be hard to believe, but the summer is almost over. The heat wave and drought that have gripped much of Texas is nearly complete, and the cool breezes of fall are on the way. Along with the cooler weather, crops will begin to be harvested at farms around Texas and across the nation. Flavors of Autumn is a nifty free class being offered by the Central Texas Medical Center (CTMC) that will teach people how to cook with seasonal vegetables about to arrive in supermarkets around San Marcos.
On September 15, Central Texas Medical Center’s Institute for Healthy Living will be offering  Cooking with Autumn Flavors. The class is a free cooking demonstration led by CTMC’s Dietary and Nutrition team. From 5:30pm to 6:30pm, CTMC staff will lead the demonstration set to cover various ways to prepare fresh autumn vegetables. The class will focus on ways to cook in-season vegetables as well as offer free samples and pamphlets of each recipe shown during the demonstration. Flavors of Autumn will be taking place at the CTMC Community Classroom. 
CTMC created this free cooking demonstration in order to teach healthy eating practices by utilizing fresh, in-season vegetables. If you are running out of recipes, or have problems cooking fresh vegetables, attend this wonderful program being offered close to home.

     






Spotlight on the Texas State Bobcats


Posted: 2011-08-29 15:30:23 UTC
Next year the Texas State Bobcats will be joining Fresno State and the University of Nevada in the WAC.
Are you ready for some football? As the first day of college football comes ever closer, many football fans around the nation are gearing up for another exciting season. Texas is one area in the country known for football and the many fans around the state are just as excited for the return of the collegiate season. Residents of San Marcos can be reassured that the Texas State Bobcats have prepared and are ready for their season opener against Texas Tech. Here is a short spotlight on the long and storied history of your Texas State Bobcats.
Sharing the state with the Texas Longhorns, TCU Hornfrogs and Texas Aggies can be difficult for a program like Texas State, yet the football program has not allowed larger schools to overshadow its many accomplishments. Like many other great Texas football teams, the Texas State Bobcats have maintained a competitive stance in the Southland Conference. Since the turn of the century, Bobcat football has won two conference titles in 2005 and 2008, as well as advancing to the Conference semi-finals in 2005.
The Bobcat’s recent victories are only a part of their long history. From the programs creation in 1940, Bobcat football has won two Division II National Championships in 1981 and 1982, eight Lone Star Conference Titles between 1948 and 1983, and maintained a .500 winning percentage for much of its history.
The Hornfrog and Texas Longhorns receive a lot of the publicity, but Bobcat fans know that they have a great football program as well. A testament of Bobcat football’s success is evident in the fact that the program will be moving into the Western Atlantic Conference (WAC) in July 2012.

     






Internship opportunities in San Marcos


Posted: 2011-08-24 21:07:17 UTC
Get matched with great job opportunities at InterninSanMarcos' Fall Fair. 
Prior to finding a stable job, previous experience is necessary to develop job skills as well as strengthen your resume and overall abilities in the workplace. Heading straight into the work force out of college or high school can be a sobering experience for those that have never interned or worked prior to graduating. Mayor Daniel Guerrero of San Marcos wanted to help students strengthen their work experience by creating InterninSanMarcos, a program to match interns with relevant job professions.
InterninSanMarcos is a partnership initiative to increase the number of high school and college students interning in San Marcos and Central Texas. Mayor Guerrero, local businesses and schools worked to create this program to help students develop much needed on-site work skills. Along with helping students, InterninSanMarcos supports small businesses in need of qualified assistance.
On August 28, InterninSanMarcos will host a fall fair to match potential interns with a number of local businesses. Texas State University, City of San Marcos and campus2careers designed the fair to introduce small businesses to young, eager students trying to improve their workplace skills. The fall fair will take place at 501 East Hopkins Road, and students can print off their free ticket at Campus2Careers.
Parents and students should visit InterninSanMarcos online. The program would be a great way to build your resume as well as open the doors for future job opportunities. For additional information on InterninSanMarcos, visit the program online at http://www.campus2careers.com/IISM/News.

     






Some Simple Ways to Help Homeless Pets


Posted: 2011-08-22 14:14:27 UTC
Follow these simple tips to help homeless pets around Central Texas.  
The economic downturn that struck the global economy has had adverse effects on many parts of society. Due to the stress and unease about finances, many families had to make the tough decision of abandoning their dogs and cats. This influx in families disposing of their pets has caused pet homelessness to soar in Central Texas and many areas around the nation. Pet Prevent a Litter of Central Texas, or PALS, was created to help homeless pets and low-income families with dogs and cats
PALs is constantly looking for help from the community to assist homeless pets and low-income households. Below are a few simple ways to assist PALs through their endeavors.

Donate dog and cat food to your local shelter. Many shelters operate on donations and would greatly appreciate donations for basic pet supplies.
Volunteer at your local shelter to better assist their efforts. Shelters commonly operate with a volunteer workforce that would appreciate a helping hand.
Use social networking to display homeless animals that need a home and raise awareness about pet homelessness.
Help shelters with basic pet supplies such as blankets, crates, food and water bowls.
Advocate spraying and neutering of pets. Spraying and neutering pets are a necessary means of keeping the pet population lower.

Dogs and cats are at a disadvantage because they lack the ability to orate their troubles. Helping PALS and your local animal shelter is a great way to help animals that simply live to serve and love their owners. For additional information on how to help homeless and impoverished pet owners, visit PALs website at Preventalitter.com.

     






Five Tips to Save Money Daily


Posted: 2011-08-15 19:23:18 UTC
Save money every day by following these simple tips and tricks.
The economic downturn that ripped across the financial market has caused many people to rethink the way they save money. Due to the rocky economic climate, many families have buckled down on their finances to ensure that their household can afford enjoyable activities such as vacations and events around town. One way to save money is by augmenting your daily routine to save a few bucks throughout the day. Below are five easy tips and tricks to save money.

Check your account and monthly statements on a regular basis. Take the time to sit down and check your account online every day. If you see any unknown transaction or fee, bring it directly to your bank as soon as possible.
Try to reserve the weekend for fast food and trips to a restaurant. Eating at home, as well as bringing your lunch to work, will save you a decent amount of money in the long run.
If you love coffee and caffeine, make your own coffee. Visiting the coffee shop everyday can cost you between $3 and $5. The cost of a coffee maker and freshly ground coffee will quickly off-set the cost of buying coffee every day.
Use cash more often than your credit and debit cards. Using cash for your small to medium transactions will allow you to see how much you are spending. Physically holding and seeing money will make it harder for you to  spend your money on unessential products.
One of the easiest ways to save money daily is to become a frugal shopper. Rather than running to the store, take the time to search for deals and sales. Spending a few moments searching for sales around town can save you money on essential household items such as food, clothing and cleaning products.

Take the time to review this list for ways to save money during this arduous recession. Even though the economy might not be in the best shape, you can still save for vacations and activities by using this list of easy tips to save money every day.

     






Prepare and Save during ‘Sales Tax Holiday’


Posted: 2011-08-12 13:35:00 UTC
 
Save a few dollars by waiting to shop on Sales Tax Holiday. 
With the stock market in constant fluctuation and many people unsure about the rocky economy, families across the nation have begun to shop smart and get a handle on their finances. One easy way to keep you expenditures lower is by buying school supplies and clothes during Texas’ Sales Tax Holiday.
Sales Tax Holiday was designed and approved by the state legislation to take some of the burden off parents having to shop for school supplies, as well as stimulate local economies. The holiday will take place from August 19 to August 21, and will be three days of no sales tax on school supplies such as #2 Pencils, pens, paper, binders and various other supplies children and teenagers require for school. The three tax-free days will also extend to clothes, backpacks and shoes.
There will be a few rules during this Sales Tax Holiday. The major rule is that individual items cannot be worth more than $100. A single item, worth more than $100, will be affixed with a sales tax. Other products that are disqualified from being taxed free include athletic gear, cleats, jewelry, handbags and purses. A full list of the items that will be considered tax-free can be found on Window on State Government’s website. 
The savings over Sales Tax Holiday are not huge, but you will save a few bucks. Rather than running to the store this weekend, why not wait to save a few dollars on Sales Tax Holiday. The small savings over the holiday can always be stored away for a rainy day.

     






5k Races coming to San Marcos


Posted: 2011-08-10 15:07:14 UTC
Enjoy the fall weather with these locals races. 
The summer time has been hot, dry and longer than usual but it is about to end in a few months. One of the great aspects of the upcoming fall is the temperature will fall and outdoor activities will become easier. 5k and 10k races are great ways to enjoy the temperate fall weather. Below are a few races scheduled in San Marcos on September and October.
Country Roads 10k & Kids Run is designed to mimic the heyday of the running craze. The race is a simple non-timed 10k run around a comely subdivision that will include a free t-shirt and access to the neighborhood pool. The challenging race will have a number of awards for the top finishers as well as door prizes for those participating. Country Roads 10k & Kids Run is scheduled for Saturday, September 17 and registration is currently open.
If you want to bring your furry companion to a race, participate in the Pet Fest 5k & Fun Run. The race is open to all two legged and four legged competitors looking for a challenge. After completing the moderate course along the San Marco River Trails, top finishers and their pets can earn a number of neat prizes and awards. Pre-registration has begun for the race and only cost $20 for the 5k and $15 for the fun run. The race is scheduled for October 1 and registration will extend up to the day of the race.
Take the time to investigate these two upcoming races in San Marcos. Each race would be a fun way to enjoy the cooler fall weather while burning off a few calories.

     






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


