Coming home to burnt-out, melted mess from Texas fires - Fire Engineering




























FE NETWORK:
Fire Life
FE University
Urban Firefighter
Fire Apparatus Magazine



About UslAdvertisinglMagazinelNewsletterlContact Usl






































 








 


















 






 






Home



FDIC


Product Center


Product Videos


Fire Life


FE University


Urban Firefighter


TAK Response


iPhone App


Courage & Valor


Buyer's Guide


Advertise


Classifieds





Training



Drills


Simulations


Instructor Development


Live Burns


Props


SOGS/SOPS


Books and Video


FEU


Training Minutes


Webcasts


FDIC Special Coverage


ISFSI


Firefighters Support Foundation





Features



Fire Dynamics


Survival Zone


Extrication Zone


Tech Zone





Fire EMS




Firefighting



Truck Company


Engine Company


Hazmat


Industrial


RIT


Structural


Wildland





Apparatus



Deliveries


Tools & Technology


Product Center





Health & Safety



Safety


LODDS





Leadership



Legal


Grants


Fireground Management


Officer Development


Volunteer Issues





Prevention



Building Construction


Codes & Standards


Public Education


Systems





Tech Rescue



Extrication


High Angle & Confined Spaces


Water & Ice Rescue


USAR


HAZMAT


Terrorism





Books




Community



Forums


Groups


Your Page


Members


Community Photos


Community Videos





 

 

 






 




Home
Hazmat
Structural Firefighting
    
    
    Coming home to burnt-out, melted mess from Texas fires



 









 






















                                    Print


                                    Email


                                    Save































Coming home to burnt-out, melted mess from Texas fires








As Brian Martin viewed damage from wildfires in Bastrop, Texas, he heard the distant tat-tat-tat of exploding ammunition inside burning homes. When he found a blown shell casing, he took a picture.
"I heard about 60, 70 rounds going off while we were there, in one big pop," he said.
That's just one of the dangers of house fires, the Pasadena, Texas, resident added. He and several other ham radio operators decided to meet where the Texas wildfires were happening. They wanted to see what was going on and find out whether they could help relay communications.Martin's friend and fellow ham radio operator Jerry Hooten lost his home in the fire. The two men walked through the burnt-out property, surveying the damage they found. In the photos Martin sent to CNN iReport, it's hard to recognize the charred possessions.
Glass bottles and ashy rubble were scattered about where the mobile home once stood. The cars parked at the home were charred and blackened, with melted rims and tangled metal scattered nearby, and the bike looked like it would never ride again. A few smoldering embers lingered as the fire moved on.
Martin says he's never seen Hooten so affected.
"He'll take it like he takes everything," Martin said. "He's asking, 'what do we do next?' "
Hooten's home is close to the bull's eye of the Bastrop County Complex fire, which has burned thousands of acres near Austin. This fire is the largest of the many blazes burning throughout the state. Four people were killed and more than 700 homes have been destroyed by fires since Sunday, authorities said.
The hot, dry summer has turned Texas' dried-out grass into kindling for the blaze.
Authorities came through the neighborhood Sunday afternoon and told Hooten and others to leave because the fire was coming.
Hooten says he had about 10 minutes to pack everything he could into his RV. Four dogs, a bird, a few precious things and some clothing for a few days were all he could grab. He's living in an RV park a few miles from the fire zone, waiting for word that he can go back to his property. Big decisions will have to wait until the family can talk about the damage.
The area is attracting national attention. Hooten hopes he'll be able to get federal assistance at some point.
Hooten seems pretty stoic about his ordeal, but frustration flickers in his voice.
"This ain't the first time this has happened to me," Hooten said. "We ain't happy about it, but we're all alive. Things can be replaced."
Many years ago, his family experienced a house fire on Thanksgiving. With this fire, an entire community is affected.
"We're not alone in this one," he said. "There's a lot of people that are in the same shape or worse than we are."
With everything going on, Hooten was happy about one bit of news: A neighbor who was able to go back home found Hooten's cat roaming outside and has been providing food and water for it.
Hooten says he's hoping to go back to his property soon and figures it won't be too hard to rebuild if that's what the family decides.
"I've got trees standing. I've got dirt. I've got a whole bunch of scrap metal to clean up."Copyright 2011 Cable News NetworkAll Rights ReservedWire News provided by  























 









































 


 





 

 




 


 























 








 



 

 

 










© Copyright 2011
Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions


TOPICS

Training
Feature Topics
Fire EMS
Firefighting
Apparatus
Health & Safety
Leadership
Prevention
Tech Rescue
Books/Video
Community


ABOUT US

Contact Us
Advertising
Subscribe
About Us


RESOURCES

Fire News
Online Archives
RSS Feeds
Buyer's Guide
Classifieds
Fire Engineering TV Video
Blog Network
Webcasts


SUPPORT

Register
Login
Forgot Password
Site Map


STAY CONNECTED

Twitter
Facebook










 

 


