Gov. Perry back on campaign trail, even as Texas wildfires continue to rage - The Washington Post









Print Subscription


Conversations
Today's Paper






Going Out Guide




Jobs




Cars




Real Estate




Rentals




Classifieds







Home


Politics





Campaign 2012
			


Congress
			


Courts &
				Law


The Fed Page


Health Care








				Polling
			


White House
			


Who Runs Gov


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

The Fix | Chris Cillizza
2chambers | Felicia Sonmez
Federal Eye | Ed O’Keefe
Fact Checker | Glenn Kessler
















Opinions





All Opinions


PostPartisan


Left-Leaning


Right-Leaning


Toles
				Cartoons
			








				Telnaes
				Animations


Local


Columnist Index












Local





DC: 
Politics
| News


MD: 
Politics
| Communities


VA: 
Politics
| Communities


Crime
			


Education
			







On Faith/Local
			


Obituaries
			


Traffic & Commuting
			


Weather
			


Blogs & Columns
			


The Root DC
			





Top Blogs

Dr. Gridlock | Weekend travel and transit
College Inc. | The ups and downs of rankings
State of NoVa | Scenes from the devastating flood
Answer Sheet | Study: Standards don’t mention 9/11









Sports






				Redskins/NFL



				Capitals/NHL


Wizards/NBA


Nationals/MLB



				DC United/Soccer








				Colleges


AllMetSports


Other Sports


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Capitals Insider| Katie Carrera
Nationals Journal| Adam Kilgore
Soccer Insider| Steven Goff
The Insider| Mike Jones









National





Corrections


Energy & Environment


Health & Science


Higher Education


National Security







On Faith
			


On Leadership


Innovations


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Ideas@Innovations
Post Leadership
Under God
Checkpoint Washington









World





Africa
			


The
				Americas


Asia &
				Pacific


Europe
			


Middle East
			







National Security


War Zones
			


Special Reports


Checkpoint Washington












Business






				Economy
			


Industries


Local Business


Markets


Policy
				&
				Regulation







Technology
			


World
				Business


Blogs & Columns


Innovations


Special Reports





Top Blogs

Ezra Klein
Post Tech | Cecilia Kang
Faster Forward
Political Economy









Investigations
















Lifestyle





Advice
			


Carolyn Hax
			


Food
			


Home & Garden
			


Style
			







Travel
			


Weddings
			


Wellness
			


Magazine


KidsPost





Top Blogs

On Parenting | Janice D’Arcy
Arts Post | Jacqueline Trescott
The Checkup | Jennifer LaRue Huget & Rob Stein
All We Can Eat | Food section









Entertainment





Books


Celebrities


Comics
			


Going Out Guide


Horoscopes







Movies


Museums
			


Puzzles
			


Theater & Dance


TV
			





Top Blogs

Reliable Source | Roxanne Roberts & Amy Argetsinger
TV Column | Lisa de Moraes
Celebritology | Jen Chaney
Click Track | Chris Richards & David Malitz









Multimedia





Innovations



				Photos
			



				Videos
			



























The Washington Post
The Washington Post












Corrections
Energy & Environment
Health & Science
Higher Education
National Security
On Faith
			
On Leadership
Innovations
Blogs & Columns






In the News


5 myths: Cheney


Ron Paul


NBC hacked


Terror threat


Krauthammer

























???initialComments:true! pubdate:09/07/2011 18:20 EDT! commentPeriod:3! commentEndDate:9/10/11 6:20 EDT! currentDate:9/10/11 7:29 EDT! allowComments:true! displayComments:true!







Top StoriesHide me


















F-16 pilot remembers Sept. 11 mission






Speech is opening round of White House offensive








Redskins vs. Giants: Five storylines to follow






What have we learned about religion post-9/11?








Abbas vows to proceed with statehood bid






Howard, Morehouse rekindle rivalry








NASA needs more astronauts, report says






Hear ye! Alexandria choosing a town crier








A cliff diver’s journey






Wal-Mart brings back layaway for holiday








Gov. Perry back on campaign trail, even as Texas wildfires continue to rage





Text Size

Print
E-mail
Reprints












						By  Associated Press, 







AUSTIN, Texas — Gov. Rick Perry left wildfire-ravaged Texas on Wednesday and flew to California to debate his Republican presidential rivals, deciding that the chance to deliver his message to a national audience outweighed any criticism he might receive for not being at the scene of a home-state emergency.
Perry’s move surprised some political experts and appeared to violate a cardinal rule of disaster politics for chief executives. Democrats immediately questioned his judgment. “If Perry stayed at home to work on the fires I don’t think there would be any room for criticism. But this opens it up for his opponents to hit him on this issue,” said Matt Angle, director of the Texas Democratic Trust, which supports Democratic candidates statewide.




 Loading...

Comments


Weigh In
Corrections?



























But after two-plus days monitoring the firefighting effort and talking to residents evacuated from some of the hardest-hit areas, Perry said he could safely return to the campaign trail.  He was scheduled to participate in a televised debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., Wednesday night, then remain in the West for two days of fundraisers in San Diego, Los Angeles, Fresno and other cities.Some Republican observers argued that Perry’s decision won’t cost him as long as the firefighting operation is well managed. Calmer winds have helped authorities gain a measure of control of the largest blazes in Central Texas, which have scorched 33,000 acres and destroyed more than 1,000 homes in the past three days alone. “The public understands his job is to be governor, not fireman,” said veteran GOP analyst Alex Castellanos, who worked on President George W. Bush’s re-election campaign. “Americans know he can meet both his responsibilities as governor and as a Republican candidate.”When asked about being outside Texas when the worst wildfires started over the weekend, Perry said, “we’ve been multitasking in this state for a long time.”Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, who is acting governor in Perry’s absence, said he will sign a request that the federal government declare Texas a major disaster area. “I’m in constant communication with Gov. Perry,” Dewhurst said.The political risk for a chief executive who does not personally oversee disaster response was underscored in 2005 when President Bush was sharply criticized for the troubled federal relief efforts after Hurricane Katrina. Since then, governors and presidents have taken a visible role at disaster sites, and many expected Perry to leave his campaign on hold longer than he did.The wildfire response “gives Perry an opportunity to demonstrate leadership, to demonstrate decisiveness and at the same time empathy and caring,” said Todd Harris, a Republican consultant. He added, however, that “you can’t do anything that looks, sounds or smells even remotely political.”But Perry’s calculation changed as the presidential debate approached. For his campaign, it was a prime opportunity for a candidate who, while leading the Republican field in recent polls, is an unknown quantity for most voters outside Texas.









Continued

1

2

Next Page















EmailTumblr
Reddit
Stumbleupon
Digg
Delicious
















Weigh In

Discussion Policy


About Discussions, Badges


 


 








Newest first


Oldest first


Most Recommended first












SuperFan
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Culture Connoisseur
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Fact Checker
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Washingtologist
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Writer
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


World Watcher
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.


You must be logged in to report a comment.
Sign in here


You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
Sign in here


Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
More about badgesGet a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused".  If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.




+ SHARE THIS DEBATE
























The Post Most: NationMost-viewed stories, videos and galleries int he past two hours



Most Popular

After 9/11, woman who was at Pentagon remains skeptical
NBC News hacked on Twitter
Woman who lost parents on 9/11 will always wonder: Why?
Homes and businesses swamped in Pa., NY; most of the 100,000 evacuees wait for th
New Mexico officer videotaped having sex on car accused of propositioning DWI sus




Top Videos

With no ammunition, pilot ordered to take down United 93
Days of rain cause deadly flooding in Northeast
Md. town still under water
A view of the 9/11 Memorial reflecting pools
NASA orbiter spots footprints on the moon




Top Galleries

Images from 9/11 and the aftermath
Supernovas of a generation
Rebuilding the World Trade Center
Marine predators on the move
U.S. military dogs in action








Live Discussions

			There are no discussions scheduled today.
		




Ask Now


Why cohabitation is worse for a child than divorce
Live Q&A, 1 p.m. ETResearcher discusses why cohabitation has replaced divorce as the biggest source of instability for American families.



 
Weekly schedule, past shows


Connect with the Post




























Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post





Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post



Twitter: Follow us on Twitter



RSS: Subscribe to our RSS feeds



Alerts: Sign up for news alerts



Mobile: Washington Post on the go



App Store: View our iPhone applications



 
Today's Paper






Full Paper
Metro
Style
Sports

Updated newspaper stories



National Newsletters
Sign-up for e-mail newsletters and alerts and get the news you need delivered directly to your inbox.
 




Economy & Business News Alerts
Behind the Government Showdown
National News Alerts




The Most
Today's Headlines & Columnists








See all Washington Post Newsletters


Featured Reads

Right Turn
Jennifer Rubin offers reported opinion from a conservative perspective.



The Root D.C.
A new space for the Washington area’s African-American community.



Political Economy
Where Washington meets big business.








Network News      
   				Hide this






Most Popular
Friends' Activity
Most Popular
Most Tweeted
Twitter Activity





Most Popular Right Now






Your Friends’ Most Recent Activity



















Follow The Post:
Facebook
Twitter
View More Activity



















Featured Advertiser LinksOil Spill, Mesothelioma Class Action, Fosamax Fracture, Asbestos & Veterans , Actos Bladder Cancer>>Topamax Side Effects, Mesothelioma Treatment, Yaz Blood Clot, Asbestos cancer, Actos, Mesothelioma Symptoms>>Join Pres. Obama. It's time to do it again.>>Are you in? Join Barack Obama's campaign now.>>Help Pres. Obama keep moving America forward.>>Join the 2012 campaign at BarackObama.com>>Looking to buy a home? Visit TWP Real Estate section for the latest open houses.>>Make Your Vanguard Investing More Profitable - Free Research Report Reveals Best & Worst Funds>>































Top national Stories
			

People Also Read
			

Most Popular Videos





















After 9/11, woman who was at Pentagon remains skeptical
Steve Hendrix 
					



NBC News hacked on Twitter
Melissa Bell 
					


Woman who lost parents on 9/11 will always wonder: Why?
Dan Zak 
					


Homes and businesses swamped in Pa., NY; most of the 100,000 evacuees wait for the all-clear
Associated Press 
					




New Mexico officer videotaped having sex on car accused of propositioning DWI suspect
Associated Press 
					


What have we learned about religion post-9/11?
Elizabeth Tenety 
					


Ground Zero after attack is seen from space in newly-released image
Melissa Bell 
					


New Yorkers take latest terrorism threat in stride on eve of 9/11 anniversary
Colum Lynch 
					




The horror of death and the hope of resurrection
Mark Driscoll 
					


Texans wary as drought, heat, and La Nina create perfect recipe for more fast-moving wildfires
Associated Press 
					


Time for religion to be a force for good
Karen Armstrong 
					


Cheney: No regrets on criticism of Obama policy
Jason Ukman 
					




Investigators search for motive in deadly Nev. IHOP shooting, build profile of gunman
Associated Press 
					


Innovation and the game of love
David Linden 
					



Owling: The new planking?
Elizabeth Flock 
					


Attention Governor Perry: Evolution is a fact
Richard Dawkins 
					




Report says about 150,000 immigrant detainees have been deported without seeing a lawyer
Associated Press 
					


Man who lost wife on 9/11 finds way to fill the void
Joel Achenbach 
					


Brightest supernova in decades serves up cosmic clues for astronomers
Brian Vastag 
					


9/11 widow still trying to find her new normal since the Pentagon attack
Eli Saslow 
					






































Ways you can get us

Mobile
Apps
Newsletter & alerts
RSS
Post Store
Facebook
Photo Store
Twitter
Washington Post Live



The Washington Post

About Us
Work for us
Community Relations
PostPoints
Corrections/Suggestions
Archive
Contact the Ombudsman
Report a problem



Web site

Make us your homepage
Digital Guidelines

Newspaper

Subscribe
Home delivery service
e-Replica
Reprints



Advertise

In the newspaper
On the web site
Mobile
Events

The Washington Post Company

Post Company web sites



Partners

Slate
Who Runs Gov
Express Night Out
Captial Business
El Tiempo Latino
The Root
Foreign Policy
Trove


Post Tickets
Capitol Deal
Service Alley
Post Master Class
WP Live
Student Advisory



© 1996- The Washington Post
User Agreement and Privacy Policy
Rights and Permissions


Help
Contact Us
Ad Choices


















