Brendan Marrocco was gesturing with real , transplanted arms one month after milestone surgery How surgeons performed double arm transplant Calif . family with " mixed " immigration status eager for Obama reforms The Colins , a family whose members range from illegally in the U . S . to U . S .- born citizens , hope Obama can produce promised reforms " Maternity Tourism ": How Chinese couples buy U . S . citizenship At the Bolshoi , ballet becomes a bloodsport Acid attack on Bolshoi ' s artistic director takes legendary tales of sabotage to new level Australia hit with historic flooding The remnants of a cyclone caused a river to burst its banks , putting the town of Bundaberg underwater Pentagon battling military rape " epidemic " With thousands of reported sex assaults yearly , military officials fear the estimated 75 percent that go unreported Ex - NFL QB Jon Kitna finds post - career joy The recently retired Lions and Cowboys QB didn ' t have to go back to Tacoma to teach algebra , but something called him home Guns are being turned in and sold in big numbers With the gun control debate at its peak , gun sales , and gun buy - back programs are on the rise Missing in gun debate : female gun owners Mental health reporting gaps cloud background checks Obama on Clinton : I ' m going to miss her President Obama says Hillary Clinton will go down in history as one of the finest U . S . secretaries of state Schieffer on unusual Obama , Clinton interview USADA head : Lance Armstrong lied in Oprah interview In interview with Oprah Winfrey , Armstrong admitted to doping ; head of the U . S . Anti - Doping Agency says he didn ' t tell the truth CBS News : Government rejects Armstrong ' s $ 5M restitution offer USADA chief : Never too late for Armstrong to tell truth Lance Armstrong offered donation to USADA during investigation Mary Jo White : Wall Street ' s new sheriff President Obama has named former federal prosecutor famous for going after terrorists to head the SEC Some Calif . school officers have assault rifles The school district police chief in Fontana , Calif ., said he can bear criticism over assault weapons , just not loss of life The technology behind those amazing giant squid images Marine biologist Edie Widder invented " electronic jellyfish " to lure giant squid into view for first time Web Extra : Author Richard Ellis on once - mythical giant squid Sec .