sanctuary gives chimps first chance to live outside cages Linda Brent opened Chimp Haven sanctuary in Louisiana after working with government chimpanzees in a laboratory New Hampshire is no boys ' club The so - called glass ceiling has been obliterated in the state , where its top leaders are all women Women make history in new U . S . Senate Evidence shows bold L . A . priest abuse cover - up Letters from the Catholic archbishop in L . A . show no attempt to alert the police of pedophile predators in their midst Questions remain in Te ' o girlfriend hoax The Notre Dame football star insists he was duped along with the public and the press about the tragic story of Lennay Kekua The risk in making sports stars " heroes " Lance Armstrong joins a long list of American athletes whose polished image as heroes gave way to the reality of their human failures Amid flu outbreak , another dangerous virus spreads among infants Respiratory syncytial virus attacks the lungs and causes up to 125 , 000 hospitalizations and more than 200 infant deaths each year Warm weather making Maine shrimp supply scarce Worries about dwindling shrimp population lead to harsh regulations , threatening livelihoods of fishermen Global sea levels expected to rise one to four feet by 2100 Impacts of climate change seen at Calif . whale watching spot Victim angered over Navy officer ' s admiral promotion U . S . Navy officer Timothy Dorsey shot down a fellow pilot during a training exercise 25 years ago ; victim now fighting his promotion Video game industry facing gov ' t crackdown In the wake of the Newtown tragedy , the video game industry is facing what it considers its most serious threat in 20 years - the possibility of new government regulations on violent video games After Newtown , Congress calls for violent video game regulation Once scarred by Taliban , Afghan province makes strides A region whose Buddha statues were destroyed by the Taliban , Bamiyan province has made advances in education and the role of women As U . S . troops leave , Afghans fear for what ' s next Surviving the winter in Afghanistan More From CBS Evening News