
	Texas Forest Service











FORESTRY COMMUNITY DOING ITS PART IN WATER QUALITY PROTECTION









[ Print | 

 ]



The increased demands on water resources in Texas may lead to a limited supply of available freshwater for future populations. Many approaches, including the highly controversial Marvin Nichols Reservoir in Northeast Texas, are being considered as possible solutions to this problem. The forestry community is doing its part to ease this burden by protecting water quality through the use of forestry Best Management Practices.
A report released by the Texas Forest Service (TFS) titled “Voluntary Implementation with Forestry Best Management Practices in East Texas”, shows that the forestry community has achieved the highest rating ever for protecting water quality. According to the report, nine out of ten sites involving forestry activities participate in environmentally sound practices.
Forestry Best Management Practices are practices determined to be an effective and practical means of preventing or reducing the amount of water pollution generated by forest management. In 1990, the Texas Forest Service started the Best Management Practices Project, which encourages landowners to protect water quality through voluntary means. This project provides technical assistance to landowners, professional workshops for loggers, public education, and random forestry site inspections.
The TFS project monitors 150 sites every two years to measure how well voluntary efforts are protecting water quality. Sites were chosen randomly throughout east Texas based on the annual timber harvest of each county. The three ownership groups that were targeted are public (national and state forests), forest industry (Temple Inland Forests, International Paper Company, and Louisiana Pacific Corporation), and non-industrial private landowners.
Public ownership has the highest rating (98.4%) in protecting water quality, followed by forest industry (96.1%) and private landowners (86.4%). The three groups had a combined rating of 91.5%. Ratings are significantly higher when:

a professional forester is used
the logger has attended the Best Management Practices workshop
the landowner is familiar with Best Management Practices
the landowner is a member of a forestry organization
Best Management Practices are included in the timber sale contract,
the timber is delivered to a major Sustainable Forestry InitiativeSM mill.

Education is the key to continued success in this project. According to the report, “continuing effective educational programs for non-industrial private landowners and BMP training for loggers can minimize water quality impacts from silvicultural operations.”









