
	Texas Forest Service











PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT









[ Print | 

 ]



Energy and Society Kits
PLT’s Energy and Society kits integrate music and dance to enhance student learning about energy. Included in the kit is an activity guide, classroom set of posters, CD and music video. For more information on how you can get your Energy and Society kit, please visit the Texas PLT website
Fire Themed PLT Workshops
Fire ecology workshops are offered FREE to educators thanks to sponsorship provided by the Bureau of Land Management in cooperation with the National Interagency Fire Center. These workshops include the PLT training and 96-activity guide, along with wildland fire education and the Burning Issues CD . For more information on holding a Fire Ecology PLT workshop in your area, please contact Angela Cure at 979-458-6649 or acure@tfs.tamu.edu.
Project Learning Tree for Pre k—8th
Project Learning Tree (PLT) is an award-winning environmental education program for teachers/educators of student’s pre K-8th grade. PLT is a fun, hands-on, interdisciplinary 6 hour workshop for educators which include training in the materials, a 96-activity guide that is correlated to the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skill (TEKS) and Continuing Professional Education (CPE), State Board of Educator Certification (SBEC) and Texas Environmental Education Advisory Committee (TEEAC) credits.
Project Learning Tree for High School
This educator workshop provides training in the secondary modules that are multi-disciplinary, standards-based and correlated to the TEKS. Modules explore different environmental issues such as Municpal Solid Waste, Focus on Forests, Focus on Risk, and The Changing Forest: Forest Ecology.
Walk in the Forest for Teachers
Grant-sponsored, hands-on, outdoor Project Learning Tree(PLT) PreK-8 educator workshop in a forest setting. Workshops are usually held in Huntsville and Longview.
Wildfire Prevention Educator Workshops
Free workshop,which provides information on wildfire prevention and the relationship between fire and the ecosystem, for 4th through 8th grade educators. Interactive cd-rom provided.








