
	Texas Forest Service











NONGAME WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT









[ Print | 

 ]



Habitat Control

Prairie/grassland restoration - Establishing a mixture of native grasses and forbs on disturbed range or farm land to provide habitat for wildlife diversity.
Forest/woodland restoration - Establishing native trees and shrubs where appropriate to restore native habitats for wildlife diversity. Maintain larger tracts of 100 acres or more of late successional woodland for area - sensitive species. Allow regeneration of seedlings to develop sapling/small-sized trees for well-developed understory. Of particular concern is the continued decline of the longleaf pine ecosystem. Re-establish longleaf pine on suitable sites throughout the historic range in the Pineywoods.
Shrubland restoration - Establishing native shrubs or small trees where appropriate to restore native habitats for wildlife diversity. Early-successional habitats can be provided by establishing hedgerows or plots of fruit-bearing native shrubs in open areas. Maintain brush along fence lines or shelterbelts with saplings and dense thickets of shrubs and vines for nongame birds such as Loggerhead shrike and Blue grosbeak.
Riparian area management - Provide alternate livestock feeding and watering sites, exclude pastures with riparian areas from livestock grazing or fence out livestock. Defer grazing in riparian areas during April - October.
Prescribed burning - The use of fire to restore, enhance or maintain native habitats for wildlife diversity. Prescribed burns should be conducted according to TPWD, USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service, Texas Agricultural Extension Service and Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission protocols in coordination with local Fire Department.
Mowing - Used to manage invading woody plants and maintain desirable herbaceous vegetation for wildlife food and cover. Mow before or after nesting season to avoid grassland nesting birds (most nesting occurs generally April-June).
Restore and maintain oak savannah/grassland - Prescribed burns should only be conducted according to TPWD, USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services, Texas Forest Service, Texas Agricultural Extension Service, and Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission protocols in coordination with local Fire Department. Most prescribed burns are conducted during December-March. Late winter-early spring burns will not impact cool season forbs as much as mid-winter burns. Summer burns are more risky, but could be more effective at woody plant control. If mechanical brush control is used leave brush piles for small mammals. Reseed areas with native grass/forb mixtures as necessary. Avoid fragmentation of large blocks of habitat or maintain shrubs and small trees in savannah habitat for song posts, and perch sites.
Maintain oak woodlands with dense understory - Exclude livestock from woodlands, especially during the early spring green-up, and the late summer-fall and winter peak stress periods for wildlife. This allows for understory regeneration, and berry and mast production, and keeps livestock from reducing evergreen browse during periods of reduced forage availability. Maintain dense horizontal layers of understory vegetation for nesting warblers, vireos and other songbirds. Connect fragmented blocks of habitat by planting a diversity of native, fruit-bearing trees and shrubs.
Protect/restore oak woodlands - Maintain areas with hardwoods, the broad - leaved species (post oak, red oak, water oak, white oak, etc.) with at least 50% canopy cover. Control overbrowsing by white-tailed deer, exotic game and livestock.
Enhance mid-succession brush habitat - Promote brush regeneration with prescribed fire and/or mechanical methods that remove the top-growth of woody plants but encourage root sprouting. Use proper grazing management.

Providing Supplemental Water

Wetland restoration - Establishing water flows and native vegetation in altered coastal and inland wetlands.
Well/trough/pond with overflows - Establish additional shallow water supplies through construction of ground-level wildlife ponds, or adding overflow systems on existing wells and troughs. Protect these areas from livestock use.

Providing Supplemental Food

Establish food plots ½ to 1 acre in size by shallow discing and/or sowing native seed-producing food plants for birds (i.e., Sunflower, millet, partridge pea, sesame).
Butterfly and hummingbird gardens - Establish native wildflowers, trees, shrubs, vines, or cultivated flowers as food sources for butterflies and hummingbirds.
Feeding stations - Set up liquid, seed and free-choice feeding stations for resident and migratory birds. Especially critical during migration and winter months when natural food sources are scarce.
Reduction of broadcast insecticides - Increases the amount of insects available as a wildlife food source for birds, reptiles and amphibians.

Providing Supplemental Shelter

Brush piles/rock piles - Leaving or stacking cleared brush and rock to create denning and escape cover for birds, small mammals, reptiles and amphibians.
Thickets of native brush - Create or maintain thickets of native shrubs/trees for refuge.
Snag maintenance and creation - Protect snags and deadfall for cavity-dwelling species. Create snags using selective herbicides or girdling undesirable woody plants.
Nest boxes and perching platforms/poles - Provide nest structures for songbirds, owls, small mammals, bats, raptors, herons, and other nongame species. Where suitable nest cavities are in short supply due to lack of dead timber snags that provide cavities or natural timber hollows, artificial nest/roost boxes can be erected to help alleviate these shortages for particular species. Some of the birds and mammals that can benefit from these structures are: bluebirds, chickadees, titmice, prothonotary warbler, wrens, woodpeckers, screech owls, kestrels, wood ducks, squirrels, and bats. The TPWD Wildscapes Program can furnish additional information regarding number, specifications, placement, and maintenance of these structures for specific species.
Waterfowl/Wading Birds: To improve the habitat for dabbling ducks and wading birds, construction of 3 - 4 foot high levees with a drop-board water control structure in suitable low areas could back up and hold water during the fall, winter, spring, summer months, depending on water management strategy. This could provide shallow (6 to 24 inches) water feeding areas for migrant ducks, wading birds, and spring-nesting wood ducks.. Exclude livestock from this area with installation of an electric or barbed wire fence around the perimeter, at least 50 yards away from the maximum flooded area. Contact the local Natural Resources Conservation Service or TPWD waterfowl biologist for assistance in location and construction of the levee.
Installation of wood duck nest boxes in and around the edge of shallow water areas can increase nesting sites for wood ducks that are normally present in the summer, but lack suitable nesting sites due to lack of natural cavities in older, damaged trees or lack of these type of trees. One nest box (not within view of other nest boxes) per acre of brood-rearing wetland habitat is usually sufficient. These should be erected on 10 foot metal or treated wooden posts in or at the edge of wetlands.
Feral Hogs should be controlled by shooting and live trapping whenever possible. Most success at this usually occurs during the winter when feral hogs are having to travel more to find food. Beside rooting up pastures, feral hogs compete directly with deer, turkey and most other wildlife species that rely heavily on acorns and other hard and soft mast for winter food. Deer also tend to avoid areas when feral hogs are present.









