
	Texas Forest Service











ADVISORY GROUPS









[ Print | 

 ]



Advisory groupsTexas Forest Service (TFS) is a service oriented agency committed to the delivery of programs that positively affect the citizens of the state. To more effectively identify needs and guide program delivery, a number of external advisory groups have been established. Group roles and composition vary, but the objective is to provide the agency with independent advice on our effectiveness, content and direction.Rural Fire Advisory CouncilOriginally established in 1984, the Rural Fire Advisory Council (RFAC) has been actively providing recommendations to TFS fire programs for over two decades. Forest Resource Protection programs have been positively impacted by the RFAC. In many cases, existing TFS fire department assistance programs were developed in direct response to needs identified by the RFAC. The Council nominates and elects its own members and while many are firefighters, quite a few are not. Part of the council’s goal is to provide input from as broad an experience base as possible. Council membership has included firefighters, fire chiefs, county judges, emergency managers, retired legislators, school superintendents, private citizens and representatives from fire associations and agencies; all to prove a communitywide perspective on wildfire-related issues. Rural Volunteer Fire Department Insurance Program (HB 3667) Advisory CommitteeThe Rural Volunteer Fire Department Insurance Program was established by HB 3667 in the 77th Texas Legislative Session. The bill established a two percent tax on the sale of fireworks to assist fire departments in paying for workers compensation and accidental death and disability insurance. The program is administered by Texas Forest Service. A five member advisory committee was also established to provide recommendations to the agency. Regional IMT Steering Committee The majority of emergency incidents are handled on a daily basis by a single jurisdiction at the local level. However, the challenges we face as a state, and as a nation, are far greater than the capabilities of any one community. The ability to successfully respond to large scale incidents (whether fire, flood, hurricane or homeland security related) requires the involvement of emergency responders from multiple jurisdictions and possibly personnel and equipment from other states and the federal government. These instances require effective and efficient coordination across a broad spectrum of organizations and activities. Incident Management Teams provide a coordination and control infrastructure to manage emergency incidents. TFS has multiple Type III Teams and one Type II Team – The Lone Star State Incident Management Team. Currently TFS is working on the development of regional Type III IMT’s utilizing local responders from across the state. An IMT Steering Committee has been established to guide the project with members from local government, state agencies and the private sector. 








