
	Texas Forest Service











TIFMAS GRANT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM









[ Print | 

 ]



Changes to the TIFMAS Grant Assistance Program (September 1, 2011)TIFMAS Funding Approvals - August 2011HISTORY…The 81st Texas State Legislature passed Senate Bill 1011 in 2009. The law amended portions of the statute governing the Texas Commission on Fire Protection. One of the amendments changed the TCFP Fire Department Emergency Program (FDEP). By statute, the Fire Department Emergency Program was abolished effective January 1, 2010. All funds and loan obligations of the former FDEP were transferred to the Texas Forest Service. All revenue and future appropriations once designated for the FDEP are to be transferred to the Texas Forest Service. Going forward, the funds will be used for a totally new program designed to provide reimbursement grants for firefighter training, SCBA’s, and PPE ; and for a pilot project to acquire fire and rescue apparatus’ to support the Texas Intrastate Fire Mutual Aid System. This new program has been designed and approved in consultation with the Texas Fire Chiefs Association, the Texas State Association of Firefighters, and the State Firemen’s and Fire Marshals’ Association of Texas.WHAT IS ELIGIBLE FOR A GRANT AND HOW MUCH WILL IT PAY…There are two categories of grants:Category 1: Training Tuition, SCBA’s, and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)Category 2: TIFMAS Apparatus (Vehicles)An annual budget of $200,000 has been allocated for Training Tuition, PPE, and SCBA grants.  Training Tuition grants will reimburse 100% of the cost of tuition for eligible courses, not to exceed $85 per day per trainee, not to exceed $595 per trainee, and not to exceed $6,000 per school. The annual maximum cap per department is $12,000.   PPE grants will reimburse 90% of the actual cost, not to exceed $8,400.SCBA grants will reimburse 75% of the actual cost not to exceed $13,200.TIFMAS Training Tuition GuidelinesThe TIFMAS Apparatus grant is a pilot project. It will award a 100% grant for a standardized NWCG Type III or VI Engine. Use of the apparatus will be governed by the terms set forth in the Terms and Responsibilities agreement between the Texas Forest Service and the fire department recipient. The objective of the TIFMAS apparatus grant is to strategically place standardized firefighting assets within each of seven TFS administrative units, currently designated as a Branch, staffed and managed by local fire departments; and which can be mobilized at any time by the state for regional and statewide emergencies. An annual budget of $800,000 has been allocated for TIFMAS apparatus grants.WHO IS ELIGIBLE…Any fire department that is not eligible for participation in the Rural Volunteer Fire Department Assistance Program (HB 2604 Program) is eligible. This includes fully paid departments and combination part-paid part-volunteer fire departments with 21 or more paid members.Fire departments that are eligible for grants under the HB 2604 Program will not be eligible for grants under the new TIFMAS Grant Assistance Program.HOW AND WHEN TO APPLY…Enrollment is now open and applications are being accepted. Applications for grants for Training Tuition, SCBA’s, and PPE must be submitted on Form FO- 420. Applications for TIFMAS Apparatus must be submitted on Form FO- 430. Please complete, sign, and date the application form; attach a fully completed IRS Form W-9, and send via mail or fax to:TIFMAS Application for Grant Assistance - Training Tuition, Emergency Grant, Form FO-420TIFMAS Application for Grant Assistance-TIFMAS Vehicle (Apparatus), Form FO-430IRS Form W-9Application Review Schedule-Expiration DatesTexas Forest Service ATTN: TIFMAS Grants2127 South First StreetLufkin, Texas 75901FAX: 936-639-8138 (Please call us to confirm that your fax was received.)Training Tuition grants are approved continuously throughout the fiscal year until grant funds are exhausted. Training Tuition grant applications must be received before the course start-date. Applications received on or after the course start-date are not eligible for reimbursement. Grants for TIFMAS apparatus, PPE, and SCBA’s will be approved in August of each year. Grant applications not approved in August will automatically roll forward to the next TIFMAS funding meeting. SCBA’s and PPE purchased before a grant approval date are not eligible for reimbursement. Purchases must be made after the grant approval date. Apparatus, PPE, and SCBA grant applications remain active and on file until approved or cancelled in writing. For additional information, please contact the following personnel in Lufkin:Ruth Ann Smith936-639-8100 rsmith@tfs.tamu.eduTeresa Fernandez936-639-8100tfernandez@tfs.tamu.eduAdditional information...Supplemental Terms and ConditionsTIFMAS Funding Approvals - August 2010  








