
	Texas Forest Service











DOD FIREFIGHTER PROPERTY PROGRAM









[ Print | 

 ]



HISTORY…The Department of Defense Firefighter Property (FFP) Program was created in 2005 by an agreement between the US Forest Service and the US Department of Defense (DoD). The FFP Program provides excess DoD military property to emergency service providers. Ownership of the equipment is to be passed from the federal government to the local recipient. The coordinating agency for the program in Texas is the Texas Forest Service. Statewide enrollment is now open.VEHICLES AVAILABLE…Vehicles available through the new FFP program are similar to the vehicles currently being used in the FEPP program. This includes:• 1 ton and 1.25 ton pick-up trucks• Panel (box) vans • 2.5 ton 6x6 trucks • 5 ton 6x6 trucks • 5 ton haul trucks with 5th wheels Tanker trucks may also be available ranging in capacity from 1,000 to 6,000 gallons. Specialized vehicles such as municipal fire trucks may occasionally be available. The most common currently available vehicle is the Truck Cargo 2.5 Ton 6x6. The Texas Forest Service does not maintain a standing inventory of vehicles under this program. Vehicles are acquired only upon request.Common Vehicle TypesFFP Vehicles Before and After Pictures WHO IS ELIGIBLE AND HOW TO APPLY…Fire departments and other emergency response providers in the state of Texas may apply for assistance under this program. Application must be made on Form TFS-FO-440 Application For Firefighter Property Program Assistance.RECIPIENTS OBLIGATIONS…Departments and other emergency response providers that receive FFP vehicles must meet certain obligations within the first 180 days of acquisition. The obligations are described in the mandatory cooperative agreement between the recipient and the Texas Forest Service, and include the following requirements:1. Paint the vehicle in a non-military paint scheme2. Make the vehicle ready for service3. Place the vehicle on the department’s insurance policy4. Post an ‘equal opportunity provider’ sign Once the department or emergency response providers obligations have been met and verified, TFS will provide the necessary documents to allow it to apply for a ‘Texas Certificate of Title’. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION…Frequently Asked Questions DoD-FFP Cooperative Agreement (For Review Only) DoD-FFP TFS Standard Operating Procedures DoD-FFP USDA Forest Service Standard Operating Procedures DoD-FFP DLA/USDA Forest Service Memorandum of Agreement 








