
	Texas Forest Service











TEXAS FOREST SERVICE RESOURCES









[ Print | 

 ]



Forest-Tree Trunks- Available for teachers who enjoy teaching with a “hands-on” approach, a traveling trunk containing forest related materials. Great to use in conjunction with Project Learning Tree activities.
Pecan Poster - State Tree of Texas
Colorful poster depicting the history and description of Texas’ state tree.
The pecan tree (Carya illinoensis) grows in every region and is native to much of the state. Even with rainfall ranging from 8.8 inches in the west to 60 inches in the east, pecan trees can be found everywhere in between - growing in orchards, open fields or forests, along streets, in front yards or parks and beside creeks and river bottoms.
In 1919, the Texas Legislature decided to name the pecan as the state tree. This decision was attributed to former governor James Stephen Hogg (governor from 1891-1895), who on his deathbed said, “Let my children plant at the head of my grave a pecan tree and at my feet an old-fashioned walnut tree. And when these trees shall bear, let the pecans and the walnuts be given out among the plain people so that they may plant them and make Texas a land of trees.”
The pecan tree, a member of the hickory family, can grow up to 150 feet tall, with a broad rounded crown. To request a State Tree of Texas poster, click here dallman@tfs.tamu.edu.
Treesource - An educator’s guide which provides a brief overview of various aspects of forest resources in Texas. It also provides a comprehensive list of resources available to educators as well as five classroom activities correlated to the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS). Contact the Texas Forest Service dallman@tfs.tamu.edu for a free copy or click here to download.
Wildfire History for Children Coloring Book - Portrays the history of wildfire, fire suppression and urban sprawl into the wildlands. To request copies of the coloring book contact lmaxwell@tfs.tamu.edu.
Texas Forest Service Resource Professionals - Available to facilitate Project Learning Tree workshops or to present at school wide events such as Arbor Day, Fire Prevention Week, etc. Find a resource professional near you here.








