
	Texas Forest Service











SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PLOTS









[ Print | 

 ]



Wildlife planting guide
Supplemental food plots provide a highly nutritious food source that can be beneficial to many species of wildlife. The establishment of locally adapted annual (spring and fall) or perennial forages on suitable soils provide supplemental foods and cover during critical periods of the year. During the dry summer months, as plant growth slows nutrient levels in native vegetation is much lower than when the plants are actively growing in the spring. For this reason, summer is often the most stressful time of the year for wildlife, especially for white-tailed deer. High protein supplemental forage can help increase fawn survival, increase body weights, and improve antler development.
The shape, size, location, and percentage of the total land area should be based on the requirements for the target species (e.g. 2-5% of area for white-tailed deer) and should meet the goals of a comprehensive wildlife management plan. A minimum of 1% of the acreage should be planted in both winter and summer food plots. It is always best to establish a variety of species to provide more diversity and to insure against the failure of one type of planting. Livestock should always be excluded from small plots.
Forage quality native vegetation can be greatly improved by fertilizing preferred browse plants such as honeysuckle, greenbriar and blackberry. Fertilization extends the growing season of most plants longer into the summer. By maintaining this growth, the plants stay palatable and have higher nutrient levels, and protein content, longer into the summer than the surrounding vegetation. By applying a balanced fertilizer in the spring and then applying ammonium nitrate or a high nitrogen fertilizer at 60-day intervals during the growing season, palatability and protein levels can be increased.
Managing the habitat for proper nutrition should be the primary management goal. Food plots should not be considered a cure-all to correct habitat deficiencies. Plantings should be considered as supplements to well managed natural habitats. Supplemental feeding should always be combined with population management, or the resulting artificially higher numbers of animals will have a negative impact on native plants. Consult with the NRCS, TAEX, TPWD, and local seed dealers for food plot mixtures suitable for your area, as well as local conditions. Plant according to soil tests and fertilize as necessary.








