Fire spectators draw concern, warning | KXAN.com

Fire spectators draw concern, warningMotorists stopping on Hwy. 71 to snap photosUpdated: Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 3:42 PM CDTPublished : Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 12:11 PM CDT
Jacqueline Ingles 

SPICEWOOD, Texas (KXAN) - Drive past parts of  fire-ravaged Spicewood  and one cannot miss the dozens of spectators pulled over on the side of the road snapping photos with their cameras and iPads, also taking video clips. The decision to pull over and snap pictures has fire crews warning spectators to be careful and lead by example. As of Tuesday night, the fire that has barreled through 6,400 acres, burned for more than three days and shut down part of Highway 71 is 90 percent contained. "This is still a very active fire," said Spicewood Fire department spokesperson Peter Teliha.   Travis County Precinct 3 Commissioner Karen Huber  backed up Teliha. "The fire marshal's office tells us that catalytic converters on the cars cause more fires than cigarettes thrown out of the cars and we don't need anymore risk," explained Huber.  "So, in addition to just the congestion people coming out to look at these fires causes, there is also a potential fire hazard." Huber, however, did see a motorist driving through Spicewood throw a lit cigarettte out of the car window. "If you see this happen, get the license plate number and call 911," Huber urged. Residents -- who were still displaced from their homes Wednesday morning before being allowed back in around noon -- stopped their cars and camped out in hopes of getting in to see their property.  Residents who live on Paleface Ranch Road and in Fall Creek Estates were misinformed when they heard they could return home Tuesday night at 8 p.m. if they got wristbands and vehicle stickers on their cars at the Bee Creek Methodist Church. "We are still assessing the fire which is now more than ,400 acres," said Mary Christopher, an emergency medical technician with the Pedernales Fire Department.  "Some of this terrain we cannot get to with a car so fire crews are on foot." Christoper wants rubberneckers and residents to remain patient and not to congest the highway. "Highway 71 is dangerous, we have workers on the roadside that could get hit by people stopping and staring," Christopher explained. So far, there have been no injuries or fatalities in this fire.  
