State Rep. tours Bastrop neighborhoods

State Rep. tours Bastrop neighborhoodsDestruction is widespread, Updated: Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 10:59 PM CDTPublished : Wednesday, 07 Sep 2011, 10:59 PM CDT
Doug  Shupe 

BASTROP COUNTY (KXAN) - State Representative Tim Kleinschmidt's office invited KXAN along for a tour of devastated Bastrop County neighborhoods Wednesday.  It was the first time we got an up close look at the damage and a better understanding of why the road to recovery will be a long process.  The State Representative hops by seeing these images everyone will understand the tremendous hardship and need so many now have in his district.   It's hard to imagine how so many people could loose so much so  fast.  "I've seen fires from the air before but this one is so much  larger that grabs you right off," said State Rep. Kleinschmidt.  Both in the Colovista and Tahitian Village neighborhoods fire gutted homes, charred cars, trucks and RV's and scorched  yards.  But it also spared some property.  "You can have one car out in the driveway that's just totally  burned and one ten feet away that doesn't look like it's  touched.  You can have four houses in a row and three will burn  and one of them will not be burned," said Representative Kleinschmidt.  What did catch on fire though is destroyed.  "The lives of those people the people that live in Bastrop  County are going to be affected for a long time," said Representative Kleimnschmidt.  Some homes we saw had no roof or walls.  The only thing that stood out in many homes were fireplaces where living rooms once were and burned appliances where kitchens once stood.  Most of the damaged homes are full of ash and rubble.   "Utter devastation.  It's heart breaking to me as fire chief  that on my watch lost this many homes.  Can't explain it," said Bastrop Fire Chief Henry Perry.   Chief Perry says despite all the destruction, the firefighters fought hard.  "My guys that are in here worked their tales off to save these  homes, saved some of them then the next day they're gone because  it kicked back up and made another run," said Chief Perry.  In Bastrop State Park--two thirds of the trees are gone.  Burned  out trunks are toppling over.  The Fire Chief says firefighters have wanted to fight the flames  even when it was too dangerous to.  "You bet ya we had close calls. One of my Battalion Chiefs told  me he said his prayers, thought he was gone, then drove out of  it," said Chief Perry.  State Representative Kleinschmidt says the hope now is for  no more loss of life and for continued help for those who've  lost everything but their lives.  "Part of these homes will be insured.  There's probably  a large number of these homes that were not insured and will be  very difficult to replace for these families, so it's a huge  loss.  We can only hope both the state and federal level  will come and help these people as much as possible."  Representative Kleinschmidt says even those who did not lose their homes will likely not be able to live in them for several weeks.  That's because restoring power to the burned out neighborhoods will take time.   Click here for more pictures from the neighborhood.   
