Firefighters have yet to control Texas wildfire - Boston.com

 HOME/COLLECTIONSFirefighters have yet to control Texas wildfireSeptember 07, 2011|Jim Vertuno and Michael Graczyk, Associated PressShareE-mailPrintLaura Clements, left, and brother Ben, survey their fire-destroyed home,… (AP Photo/Eric Gay)One of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history is slowing down thanks in part to calming winds, but stretched-thin firefighting crews have yet to gain any control of the blaze that is plowing across rain-starved grasslands now littered with hundreds of charred homes.Raging with zero containment for days, the wind-fueled fire has destroyed more than 600 homes and blackened about 45 square miles in and around Bastrop, a city near Austin. An elite search team on Wednesday will begin looking for more possible victims of the fire, which has killed two people and forced thousands to evacuate.Crews finally got a reprieve Tuesday from winds pushed in by Tropical Storm Lee that whipped the blaze into an inferno over the weekend. Increased humidity was moving in overnight, and officials were expected to report some containment in the morning, Texas Forest Service spokesman John Nichols said.


“Tonight should be a good night, tomorrow should be a good day — we hope,’’ Nichols said late Tuesday. “The reason why it hasn’t been able to be contained is the wind. We still have a lot of active fire on the line, but today was the first day we had very light wind.’’The blaze is the most catastrophic of the more than 180 fires that have erupted in the past week across Texas, marking one of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in state history. The fires have destroyed more than 1,000 homes, caused four deaths and pulled the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit.In a housing development near Bastrop, Willie Clements’ two-story colonial home was reduced to a heap of metal roofing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks died in a coop that went up in flames.“We lost everything,’’ said Clements, who with his family took a picture of themselves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that proclaimed, “United We Stand.’’“This is the beginning of our new family album,’’ the 51-year-old said.Texas Gov. Rick Perry cut short a high-profile presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis, and on Tuesday toured a blackened area near Bastrop, about 25 miles from Austin. He later deployed Texas Task Force 1, the same search team sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost everything,’’ Perry said after the tour. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stunning.’’


12Next 


Advertisement

MORE LIKE THIS »Texas fire crews get help fighting blaze from stormApril 12, 201128 homes, dozen businesses destroyed by Texas wildfireMarch 3, 2009Firefighters gain ground on Texas blazes as winds diminishSeptember 8, 2011Advertisement

© 2011 NY Times Co.Your Ad Choices|Privacy Policy|Contact Boston.com|Index by Date|Index by Keyword







