
	Texas Forest Service











THE RED-COCKADED WOODPECKER









[ Print | 

 ]



On State Forests in TexasThe red-cockaded woodpecker (RCW) was placed on the endangered species list in 1970. It is different from other woodpeckers in that it makes the cavities in which it roosts and nests in live pine trees. Most other woodpeckers construct cavities in dead trees. After the RCW cavity is completed, resin “wells” are chipped through the bark, causing sap to flow down the tree and giving the tree a characteristic candle-like appearance.A “cluster” is a grouping of RCW cavity trees and the surrounding trees. A “group” is the family of RCWs living in a cluster. A group would ideally consist of a breeding male and female with one or two helpers. Helpers are usually male offspring of previous years’ broods. Some groups may have fewer or more birds than this, but there would be only one breeding pair.Red-cockaded woodpeckers prefer open, mature pine forests across the southern United States. The RCW occurs from East Texas and Southeast Oklahoma across the South to the East Coast. In East Texas, RCWs are present on National Forests, State lands, industry lands, and private forestlands.Two of our State Forests have groups of red-cockaded woodpeckers. The W. G. Jones State Forest is located on FM 1488, ½ mile west of I-45 just south of Conroe in Montgomery County. The forest is not open to vehicular traffic, but certain areas are open on weekdays and weekends for public parking. The forest roads make hiking easy. A map of the Jones State Forest with RCW cluster locations can be seen below or a map can be obtained from the Texas Forest Service office on the forest. For more information, call the Texas Forest Service weekdays 8:00 am to 5:00 pm at (936) 273-2261.Purchased by the state in 1926, the 1733 acre Jones State Forest is named in honor of W. Goodrich Jones, the founder of the Texas Forestry Association. The Jones State Forest was created, and still operates as, a demonstration and working forest. Although the forest is not actively managed for recreation, the close proximity to Houston makes it popular area for the public to enjoy. Among its managed for amenities are a self-guided nature trail, two small ponds, picnic area, and parking for horse trailers. Horseback riding and fishing are allowed, but no hunting. The forest is a wildlife sanctuary and home to endangered red-cockaded woodpecker.A map of the W. G. Jones State Forest (in PDF format) is available for viewing and/or printing.Checklist of birds in the W. G. Jones State Forest.The I. D. Fairchild State Forest is in Cherokee County west of Maydelle on Hwy. 84 between Rusk and Palestine. Most of the roads of this forest can be driven except during wet conditions. A map with RCW cluster locations can be viewed from this website. Cluster boundaries on the site are marked with orange paint. On both forests, RCW cavity trees, whether active or inactive, are marked with a band of green paint and a metal number tag.A map of the I. D. Fairchild State Forest (in PDF format) is available for viewing and/or printing.The best time to see and hear the birds is early in the morning just after daylight or in the evenings before dusk within the cluster area.Important: If you visit the cluster sites during nesting season (March through July), please limit your time there to no more than 15 minutes to minimize the disturbance of nesting RCWs. Please observe the birds with as little disturbance as possible.Safe Harbor ProgramMost of the red-cockaded woodpeckers (RCW) in East Texas occur on National Forest lands. Many occur on State and timber industry lands. Some are on non-industrial private lands as well. Safe Harbor is a voluntary program that encourages landowners to manage their property in ways that could produce habitat suitable for RCW without fear of additional responsibilities under the Endangered Species Act. Learn more about the Safe Harbor program.For more information on the red-cockaded woodpecker on State Forests or the Safe Harbor program contact Donna Work at:Texas Forest ServiceP. O. Box 310Lufkin, TX 75902-0310(936) 639-8180dwork@tfs.tamu.edu     








